MINER GPT- Cloud Mining Platform
Register/Login
Register/Login
Earn with our eco-friendly mining
Crypto Mining Made Easy
MINER GPT provides state of the art solar powered bitcoin mining in the tropics. The best platform to earn safely and fast.
Start Mining
How to start
Start earning right away
1
Register
Create your account in a few steps
2
Choose your package
Select the mining package you desire. Each package has its own unique benefits
3
Receive profits
Start earning money from your chosen package. You will receive your first payment in 24 Hours.
What is Bitcoin
Bitcoin is a digital currency that is decentralized. Any two people can send each other bitcoins with no involvment of banks or governments.
Every transaction of bitcoins is recorded on the public ledger called blockchain. The ledger can be accessed by anyone.
There will only ever be 21 million bitcoins and since it's digital it cannot be inflated or manipulated. There is no need to acquire all bitcoins, owning a fraction suffices
MINER GPT- Cloud Mining Platfor Cloud Mining
Mining is the process of creating new cryptocurrencies that are added to the blockchain. Powerful hardware such as ASICs are used to perform complex calculations which then generate bitcoins as a reward.
These machines are quite expensive and require technical knowledge and space.
MINER GPT- Cloud Mining Platfor provides miners with state of the art hardware powered by over 1.2 MegaWatts of solar power. Currently we have a total of 27,000 Bitcoin mining devices producing 3.78 EH/s. Therefore you can mine conviniently and profitably anywhere with just your device.
Why Us
What we offer
New state-of-the-art hardware
We use the newest ASIC and GPU  mining gear from Bitmain, Canaan and Nvidia and advanced cooling technologies in our centers.
Stable profits
Your income is automatically updated on your portal everyday.
Fast Regular Payouts
All withdrawal requests are processed automatically through the portal.
Safe and secure platform
All funds are stored in fully secure cold wallets with Kasperskyâ„¢ protection.
Expert team
Our team of Blockchain engineers and IT experts have got you fully covered with the best technologies in the market
Eco-friendly mining
Our miners and cooling systems are powered by the best monocrystalline solar panels thus environment-friendly and very profitable
Our Patners
Access from any Device
Invest online anytime using any device
Clear Real-Time mining charts to monitor your investment
Withdraw your money safely and insantly
Eco-friendly mining with high profits
Copyright Â© 2019-2024, Powered by
NAVIGATE
Home
Our Company
What we do
Reach Us
PRIVACY & TOS
Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Address
20 Wenlock Road, London,
England, N1 7GU
Support
mail: [email protected]