MPG
Skip to content
MPG
Top Market Leaders In Online Entertainment
Home
About Us
Services
Career
Gallery
Contact Us
Affiliate
Home
Innovative Driven
With our exceptional gaming platform, reimagined for the 21st century, we invite customers to enter a new gaming experience that is truly immersive from the others in the industry.
iGaming Platform
All must-have features included, real time push driven data events using web sockets to increase gamification and engagement, award winning games, ready-to-implement payment provider integrations that support credit and debit cards, wire transfers and even Bitcoins.
Services & Solutions
Payments
CRM
CMS
GAMIFICATION
CS
SECURITY
KYC
AFFLIATES
BI
Offering Hassle-free transaction options.
A full suite of the best payment system providers in the industry, with the promise of ensuring ultimate flexibility, choice and convenience.
To provide your players with easy, ready-to-implement integrations that support both credit and debit cards, wire transfers, e-wallets and even bitcoin and other major cryptocurrencies, which are all conveniently supplied and accessible through web, mobile and in-game cashiers.
A full suite of the best payment system providers in the industry, with the promise to ensure flexibility, choice and convenience.
Bank Transfer
Skrill
Neteller
Ecopayz
Neosurf
Flexepin
MuchBetter
Interac2Pay
Trustly
Zimpler
Sofort
Paysafecard
Siru
Astropaycard
Coinspaid
A way to interact with your customers the right way.
An easily integrated automated messaging platform giving you total control of all of its tools and usability in order to reach your players the way they like to be reached.
Develop your communication strategy using one platform offering a vast selection of types
Direct Message types
Automated & API triggered workflows
Newsletters
Mailers
Transaction Messages
Various comms chanells
Emails
SMS
Slack Threads
Push Notification
Timing & Logistics
Time delay settings
Timeline windows
Action triggered communications
Perfect delivery updates
Powerful cutting edge technology
An in-house system that’s fully adapted to suit all Casino content management needs.
A beginner-friendly intuitive UI, one which allows clients to build their sites from scratch with the option for full customisation.
Our new and improved CMS system allows our clients to customise their site to match each and every preference, within a matter of seconds, thus providing the power to change all website content as well the layout easily and swiftly.
Fully provided gamification tools.
Choose from a selection of different game types in order to target your audience perfectly.
A feature-rich and extremely user-friendly tool, with all features available for selection directly in-game, made with visceral design and a stress-free, simple and single API integration.
A system that exhibits a massive portfolio of game-type selections, game providers, various promotion types and a huge library of designs and layouts to give players the most top of the range, niche gaming experience imaginable.
Loyalty programs
Missions and level-play
Tournaments
VIP Programs
Cashback rewards
Leaderboards
Races & Chases
Jackpots
Prize-drops
Campaign reporting
Making it easy for your players to talk to you.
Live chat software and a variety of customer data tools in order for you to acquire the best customer support set-up for your brand, whilst giving your customers the interaction experience they deserve.
Listen to your customers. They want to be heard.
Customised forms for better context pre-chat.
Chats done in real-time
Specifically timed triggered messages
Offline messaging
Organized customer data
Chat insights for an optimized service
Safety. Privacy. Reliability. Speed. Trust.
Connect with a global network that’s designed specifically to ensure the absolute safety of all your internet connections
The ability to protect all corporate networks, ensuring the safety of all employee information and device data.
The total security of all your sites, internet web apps and all API integrations.
An easy to use dashboard developed to enable quick configurations.
A programmable edge that allows you to change already existing apps or even create entirely new ones.
Protect your business against money launderers, fraudsters and financial crime.
In partnership with a top tier KYC solution provider, we ensure our clients a service that protects their business whilst also being able to offer their customers the trust they deserve.
With the power of AI, biometric technology, this KYC solution helps to rapidly convert into more customers whilst stopping all risk of being infiltrated by fraudsters.
A KYX platforms consisting of an eKYC platform offering a vast amount of identify proofing services, transaction monitoring and end-to-end identity verification.
Partnering with the most trusted affiliate marketing platform available to the industry. .
A system that enables our clients to have the opportunity to match up with a fool-proof database of the best affiliate marketers out there.
All accessible through a simple service integration – done in a few clicks thus harnessing the power of highly advanced software, that keeps all aspects of our clients’ business interconnected and protected – keep their workflow on cue to meet each and every single demand on time.
A variety of affiliate management platforms to choose from, offering efficient, reliable, secure, fast and flexible options depending on what our client is after.
The ultimate business intelligence tool.
A fully bespoke and fully customisable reporting tool that is built and deployed in-house.
Our BI collects, calculates and displays all data required for our clients’ casino businesses in one swift click, whilst being displayed and structured in an extremely user-friendly UI!
A system that allows the set-up of hourly, weekly, monthly and yearly reports in just a few short seconds.
OUR PARTNERS
We are an eminently international group company, we respect every countries’ educational values, and provide opportunities in a variety of paths.
Business Hour:
Monday-Friday (9am-6pm)
Business Units:
Curacao
Exclusive Regional Partner
Gaming License
Send email to:[email protected]
Copyright © MPSG. All Rights Reserved.