Tap Courier Jet – Your Reliable Courier Partner
We are Open: Mon - Sat 24 Hours
Send us mail support@tapcourierjet.com
Track Your Shipment
Menu
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Track Here
Our Services
Air Freight
Sea Freight
Road Freight
Fast & Secure Move Is our Promise
Tap Courier Jet offers a full range of maritime services, operating along the world’s major  shipping lines.
READ MORE
Safe & Reliable Sea Transportation
Tap Courier Jet offers a full range of maritime services, operating along the world’s major  shipping lines.
READ MORE
A Wide Veriety Of Transport Solutions
Tap Courier Jet offers a full range of maritime services, operating along the world’s major  shipping lines.
READ MORE
Air Freight
Airport to Airport Service We can collect the freight from your door and deliver to
Sea Freight
General Dry Container Services We provide 20FT and 40FT Standard and High Cube Container boxes
Road Freight
RELIABLE ROAD HAULAGE Sometimes the old fashioned ways are the best. THE PRO PARCELS COURIER
Customer Care
Expert, knowledgeable support and service 24/7 Need answers to your questions about shipping, pricing, service details, documentation requirements?
VIEW DETAILS
Warehousing
Our Port has over 15,000 square metres (162,000 sq.ft) of modern cantilever warehousing available alongside the Dock. The
VIEW DETAILS
Our Services
Our mission is to provide high-quality, value for money, worldwide deliveries through a range of top carriers and suppliers. We have grown steadily since our incorporation and are proud to facilitate shipments to over 220 countries and international territories for more than 150, 000 customers throughout the Poland, Finland, USA, UK and worldwide. Our door-to-door courier services offer some of the most competitive rates for international parcel delivery and our years of freight forwarding expertise mean we can ensure you get a seamless service every time. But that doesn't mean we're not constantly striving to improve! We know that, in order to meet our customers' expectations, we need to change continually: that's why we are always expanding the range of services we offer to customer, and why invest significantly in web development to bring you the most up to date tools. All of our services are fully bookable online and you can
Complex long-distance transportation
Fast and quality delivery
Why People Choose Us
Providing professional Courier Service is the main focus of Tap Courier Jet….
Economical Air Freight
Our company offers the best logistics services using all means of supply chain.
World-Wide Freight
Our company offers the best logistics services using all means of supply chain.
Safety & Compliance
Our company offers the best logistics services using all means of supply chain.
Real Time Shipment
Our company offers the best logistics services using all means of supply chain.
Our Projects
We work in partnership with all the major
Office Removals
Overseas Moving
Wareohousing Solution
Moving Interstate
Office Furniture Moving
Living Room
Our Process
More About Us..........
1
Book Your Order
2
Pack Your Things
3
Move Your Things
4
Deliver Your Things
Our Specialties
Assured of a problem-free relocation, your satisfaction our priority..
Storage
Your goods are safe with us. We are very flexible with our price and we comply to the wish or command of our clients.
Distribution
We have a wide range of solutions that can be tailored to your business' particular needs. Our aim is to optimize and improve your supply chain, helping you gain a competitive advantage.
Trucking
Real-time shipment status for your delivered and undelivered shipments Ship, Import and Monitor Your Shipments! Tap Courier Jet
Great Moving
Company
If you have any Move need, simply call our 24 hour
CONTACT US
About Company
When you have a time-critical delivery, we will find the solution, delivering your goods to the door anywhere in the world as soon as possible.
Our comprehensive delivery services include:
Express And Swift Delivery 24 or 48 Hours
Multi-modal Transportation by Sea/Air/Road
Worldwide charters shipping services.
Priority Shipping
4856
Happy Customers
6282
Boxes Moved
18
Years of Serving
From Planning to Unpacking
We set ourselves apart from the competition by offering more flexibility in service and efficiency while focusing on creating customized solutions for our customers. One way we do this is by operating around the clock, 100 days a year with a worldwide network of logistics professionals focused solely on serving you, our customer.
We provide a superior integrated supply chain service by developing innovative solutions that deliver sustainable competitive advantage to our clients.
GET STARTED
Testimonials
What Customer's Are Saying About Us
Thank you very much for your assistance on this pick up. Your ability to complete the pick up and drop is greatly appreciated!
Sara Johnson- Trans-Expedite, Inc
Thank you. We really appreciate your team providing timely service on such short notice on the eve of a holiday. We will be in touch
Martha Jones- KH. Wharehouse
We are very impressed the service Fast Worldwide Delivery Courier Service provide, We had a last minute pick up from Plymouth mid afternoon to go
Matt Cimino- Cl. Engineer
Just wanted to thank you for your excellent service. You are always prompt in your email responses and never fail to 'deliver' (excuse the pun!)
Lisa Jason- Office Assistance
You guys made my Friday,  What a great service.. Super fast collection of materials required for our site. Recommend A++++ Service Rates Very Good
Gary Dempsey- Marketing Director
Address:
1307 CORNELL AVE APT I-57 DOTHAN AL Zip code:36304
E-mail:
support@tapcourierjet.com
We treat each customer as our first customer, seek to fulfill customer expectations. Dedication and honesty are the secret of our business. We are always looking for better ways to create the best value for our customers and for our company.
Our Services
Our Services
Air Freight
Sea Freight
Road Freight
Customer Care
Warehousing
Latest News
Special Cargo
August 23, 2022
Trucking Services
November 8, 2022
Service Hours
Monday
24 Hours
Tuesday
24 Hours
Wednesday
24 Hours
Thursday
24 Hours
Friday
24 Hours
Saturday
24 Hours
Sunday
Closed
© 2022 Tap Courier Jet All Rights Reserved
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Track Here
×
Drop files here or click to upload.
Accepted file type : image/*, application/pdf, .psd, .doc, .docx, .csv, .xls, .xlsx
Max Filesize: 5 MB.