Best Award-Winning CFD Trading Platform | TOPONE Markets
We use cookies to learn more about how you use our website and what we can improve. Continue to use our website by clicking "Accept".
Details Accept Trader
Partners
Insights
GET |
English
简体中文 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt ไทย Indonesia Melayu 한국어 Español हिन्दी தமிழ் Português   Trade Access To Global Market Offered 100+ trading products, including 35+ Forex currency pairs, gold, oil, stocks, indices and mainstream cryptocurrencies, etc. General> Start Trading Now or Try Free Demo Account Global Market Forex Commodities Indice Stocks Trading Rules Contract Details Spreads Table  Trading Account ECN Account Premium Leverage Account Islamic Account Platform Trade Anywhere & Anywhere We support a variety of download methods and devices, including iOS, Android, Web and MT5 trading platforms. General>  App Store  Google Play  Web Trader  Scan to Download METATRADER 5 MT5 for Mac MT5 Official Installer TOP1 Custom Installer MT5 for iOS MT5 for Android Market Analysis Market News and Research Keep abreast of real time market views and opportunities, trading concepts and professional strategy references. Market Analysis Trading Analysis Data Economic Calendar Sentiment Index Investment Bank Order Gold ETF Position Report EIA Crude Oil Education Education Overview TOPONE Markets will help you at every stage of the trading process. Online Course    Training Video  Martin's Video The Basic Level 1 Level 2 About Us About TOPONE Markets We are a trustworthy online trading provider. Through our innovative platforms and applications, investors can trade the global products on financial markets even faster. Start Trading Now or Try Free Demo Account Company About Us Affiliate Program Client Funds Protection Online Support How to open account？ How to start trading？ How to make profit？ Help Centre Terms & Conditions Trade Now   Trade Now     TradeAccess To Global Market Offered 100+ trading products, including 35+ Forex currency pairs, gold, oil, stocks, indices and mainstream cryptocurrencies, etc. General> Global MarketForex Commodities Indice Stocks Trading RulesContract Details Spreads Table Trading AccountECN Account Premium Leverage Account Islamic Account PlatformTrade Anywhere & Anywhere We support a variety of download methods and devices, including iOS, Android, Web and MT5 trading platforms. General App Store Google Play Web Trader MT5 for Mac MT5 Official Installer TOP1 Custom Installer MT5 for iOS MT5 for Android Market AnalysisMarket News and Research Keep abreast of real time market views and opportunities, trading concepts and professional strategy references. Market AnalysisTrading Analysis DataEconomic Calendar Sentiment Index Investment Bank Order Gold ETF Position Report EIA Crude Oil EducationEducation Overview TOPONE Markets will help you at every stage of the trading process.  Training Video Online Course Martin's VideoThe Basic Level 1 Level 2 About UsAbout TOPONE Markets We are a trustworthy online trading provider. Through our innovative platforms and applications, investors can trade the global products on financial markets even faster. CompanyAbout Us Affiliate Program Client Funds Protection Online SupportHow to open account？ How to start trading？ How to make profit？ Help Centre Terms & Conditions
English
繁体中文 简体中文 Tiếng Việt ไทย Indonesia Melayu 한국어 Español हिन्दी தமிழ் Português Trader | Partners TOPONE Markets - Award Winning Community Based Investment Platform. Start Trading Now  TOPONE Markets - Award Winning Community Based Investment Platform. Start Trading Now  Extremely Competitive Spreads Commissions are paid by TOP1 Up to 1:1000 Leverages Fast & Reliable Order Execution
Invest Trending Products
Opportunities Can Be Found Everywhere
Forex
逾100组货币对，零佣金，主要外汇点差低至0.6点。
Indice
24小时交易多只全球指数，点差低至1点。
Stocks
提供热门股票的差价合约交易，包括APPL (苹果)，AMZN(亚马逊)等
Commodities
我们提供种类繁多的大宗商品期货，并新推出无到期日大宗商品。
Forex Commodities Indice Stocks Product Spread Selling Price Buying Price Quote change    *Spreads may scale up/ down during market fluctuations, the quotes listed below are only for reference. Live-streaming
Interact with online instructors in real time to master trading know-how and keep up with the best trading products and market dynamics to make the trading process more convenient for investors.
Trading Tips Technical Analysis Real-time Interaction Instructor Q&A     00 : 00 : 00    TOPONE Markets Trading Information （）             Start Trading Now Free Subscribe To Trading Signals Select the trading signals with excellent performance from thousands of traders, so that investors can follow the masters to trade at the same time, and firmly seize the opportunity of profit.
Subscribe Now
Trading Signals Applied      Featured Traders Stats （  ） Average Profit $0 Average Win Rate +0% Average Profitability 0%
Subscribe Now
Follow
Don't know how to trade for the first time?Let me teach you all how you can build a trading foundation and develop good trading habits.
81  22   Follow
The price has told us everything, and I am good at finding trends from the analysis of market charts and making steady profits.
60  25   Follow
Trading is a contest with emotions, and you can only go further by controlling your greed and fear.
74  19  Investment Community Where The Elites Gather
Discuss market trends, share investment experience and exchange trading strategies with investment experts. Through the articles shared by the community and the power of technology, we help every investor in the world to establish their own exclusive trading system.
Join Our Community   Award Winning Community Based Investment Platform We thrive to make every single trader able to grab the best market opportunities through the power of FinTech. Fast & Handy Web Trade Platform An award-winning app made for multiple devices. One-tap order placement and trantrading can be flexibly switched, and seize the investment opportunities always ahead from others; Comprehensive alert reminders and risk management tools Download app     WebTrader  iPhone / iPad  Android APP
We Help Investors Grow
Our mission is to assist every trader get on a successful and confident trading path. We are committed to providing best-in-class learning materials, including easy-to-understand trading tutorial videos, trading basics, trading terms, understanding the products, understanding the trading theory , market analysis, technical analysis, live streaming, etc. Aim to motivate every trader and expand their horizons to enhance their trading capabilities on their own.
Beginners Lesson Online Video Tutorial Live Streaming Period Become A Top Author This is a reward program for experienced traders to assist other traders expand their investment horizons and improve their trading capabilities by sharing their trading thoughts and the professional knowledge on TOP1. If you think you are confident and entitled to become an investor leader, you are welcome to join this program and earn money from the followers you got and also expand your own trading business as your passive income. Apply Now Investing considered an art. All of us can find the best investment method only by observing, listening and learning. @蔡菲特 [Taiwan] Become A Top Author This is a reward program for experienced traders to assist other traders expand their investment horizons and improve their trading capabilities by sharing their trading thoughts and the professional knowledge on TOP1. If you think you are confident and entitled to become an investor leader, you are welcome to join this program and earn money from the followers you got and also expand your own trading business as your passive income. Apply Now More than 10 years of stocks, gold, Forex and cryptocurrencies trading experience. Investing has become my main job nowadays, I really enjoy this challenging, flexible job that can improve my standard of living. @Notjaa [Thailand] Become A Top Author This is a reward program for experienced traders to assist other traders expand their investment horizons and improve their trading capabilities by sharing their trading thoughts and the professional knowledge on TOP1. If you think you are confident and entitled to become an investor leader, you are welcome to join this program and earn money from the followers you got and also expand your own trading business as your passive income. Apply Now Top investors always know how to respect the choices of the market at every moment. Let me tell you what,  through a tailor-made trading concepts, this speculative market will no longer be just a  simplu speculation for you. @ADOLPH [Taiwan] Become A Top Author This is a reward program for experienced traders to assist other traders expand their investment horizons and improve their trading capabilities by sharing their trading thoughts and the professional knowledge on TOP1. If you think you are confident and entitled to become an investor leader, you are welcome to join this program and earn money from the followers you got and also expand your own trading business as your passive income. Apply Now More than 20 years of investment experience, master the 4 major trading theory systems, and focus on helping investors learn their own technical analysis methods. @Sarah [Malaysia] Become A Top Author This is a reward program for experienced traders to assist other traders expand their investment horizons and improve their trading capabilities by sharing their trading thoughts and the professional knowledge on TOP1. If you think you are confident and entitled to become an investor leader, you are welcome to join this program and earn money from the followers you got and also expand your own trading business as your passive income. Apply Now A young man who has worked in different brokers and witnessed big and small things in the industry. I am convinced that good investors have knowledge, mentality and tools. There is no shortcut to success, only perseverance. @Foong [Malaysia]  Start Trading Now Or claim your  Free Learning Account  now!  Need Assistance? 7×24 H Join Our Community:    User Agreement Website Terms Privacy Policy Cookies Agreement Refund Policy Anti Money Laundering Policy KYC Policy Risk Warning | Withdrawal: Withdrawal request will be processed quickly, and funds will be deposited into your bank account immediately. Please keep in mind that financial products involve a high level of risk, and you may lose your entire principal. Margin trading may not be suitable for all investors, please ensure that you fully understand the risks involved. Before using our services, please read carefully our risk warnings, terms and conditions. Traders do not own the underlying assets and related rights and interests of the transaction.  TOPONE Markets does not provide any suggestions, recommendations or opinions on buying, holding or selling our trading products. All the products we provide are over the counter derivatives based on global assets. All services provided by TOPONE Markets are only based on the execution of trading instructions. TOPONE Markets does not issue, buy or sell cryptocurrency and we are not a cryptocurrency exchange platform.  TOPONE Group is registered in the Cayman Islands, with the registered address: Buckingham Square, Phase 2, 2nd FI, 720 West Bay Road, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. TOPONE Markets is the retail brand of TOPONE Group. These include TOPONE Markets PTY LTD and TOPONE Markets LIMITED. These companies provide services under the local regulations and have their own licenses and service operating permits. TOPONE Markets PTY LTD regulated by the Australian ASIC Authorized Regulatory (AR). (Regulatory Ref: 001309512) to provide professional and institutional clients with corresponding financial services. TOPONE Markets LIMITED is supervised by the Vanuatu Financial Services Commission (Supervision Ref: 40436).  The information on this website is not aimed at residents of the United States, Singapore, Hong Kong, Belgium, Iran, and North Korea; the information on this website is not suitable for use by anyone in any country or jurisdiction that violates local laws or regulations due to its publication or use.   TOPONE Markets Enjoy risk-free demo trading with $10K GET © 2021 TOPONE Markets Copyright