Capital Wealth  Investment - Finance and Investment Company
Fortunastrasse 53, Erschwil, Solothurn CH
support@capitalwealthfinance.com
Sign In
Home
About
The Company
Policy
Terms & Conditions
Plans
My Account
Sign In
Sign Up
Reset Password
Contact
FAQs
Creaate A successful Investment Plan
Capital Wealth  Provides Best Financial Solutions
Register Now
Login
Investment  planning for Growth
Trusted to help guide Investors make better financial decisions.
Register Now
Login
Financial  planning for life
Capital Wealth Will Give You Great Investment Opportunity
Get Started
Login
The best way to build wealth is to stay invested.
Our philosophy is simple: our entire business is centred on you and your goals. Financial planning is not about money, it’s about finding ways to help you achieve your goals through careful and thoughtful Investment planning and execution. Trade instantly between any of our available investment plans. Manage your investment portfolio without ever leaving the investment platform. At Capital Wealth we help you identify, assess and shape those goals so your plans and actions are always focused on achieving them. Whatever they might be.
CWF has won remarkable recognitions in Europe and the world over, including: 1. Best Performing Investment Company of the Year,
2. Most Innovative Investment Firm,
3. Best Client Service Award,
4. Top Investment Advisor Award, and
5. Outstanding Investment
Performance Award.
6. With over 3 million+ investors globally.
Find out More
INVEST! EARN! WIN!
The Invest to WIN Promo
Our Invest to Win Program revolutionizes the way investors approach the markets by offering a more profitable WIN-WIN alternative to the old invest-and-wait-maturity strategy. At the heart of it all is the extraordinarily simple and effective GainsMaster investing method, which you can use both to protect your assets, and win great prizes with Capital Wealth. You can take an immediate action on this profit-making opportunities we offer. The maximum invest on cloud mining 3 times only.
Cash Bonuses
Brand new Cars
Travel Vouchers
Gift Cards
Free Investment Seminars plus VIP Access to Investment Events
Discounted Brokerage Fees and Investment Portfolio Reviews
Get Started Now
Your browser does not support HTML video.
Why Invest with Capital Wealth ?
Capital Wealth  prouds itself as the most reliable and transparent platform for global investors, Authorised and based in Switzerland with global operation licenses. A financial company of repute and global recognitions. We have helped individuals and groups to grow their assets through our amazing investment opportunities.
Commit your investments to a fast-growing asset firm  - With regards to a multi-choice of crypto investment plans, you can invest in cryptos while diversifying your stakes with very minimal risks.
We have dedicated investment advisors that will guide you through on How to Manage Risk and make the best of your investment capital.
Easy to Invest - Our clients can buy and sell crypto-asset products easily in your Capital Wealth  account, just like investing your favorite stock in the stock markets.
Instant Payout and withdrawal
Investment Plans
Exceptional Capital investment Plans
Our financial services range from consultancy, financial advisory sessions, flexible investment packages.
CLOUD MINING
5% After 72 Hours
Min: $100.00 - Max: $10,000
Fixed 5% After 3 Days
Financial planning session
No tax deductions
Automated Fund Allocation
Buy Plan
TRADING THE NON-FARM PAYROLL REPORT
10% After 7 days
Min: $1,000.00 - Max: $20,000
Fixed 10% Weekly interest
Financial planning session
No tax deductions
Automated Fund Allocation
Buy Plan
STOCK TRADING
15% Weekly for 1-3-6 Months
Min: $5,000.00 - Max: $100,000
Fixed 15% daily interest
Financial planning session
No tax deductions
Automated Fund Allocation
Buy Plan
See All Plans
Transactions
List of Recent Transactions
Investor
Amount
Wallet / Currency
Type
Escarleth Ocaña
$338
BTC
Deposit
Halima Viekhan
$125000
BTC
Deposit
naqeeb habibi
$94500
1
Deposit
Villa Maria
$75000
1
Deposit
abdullahm Ahmud
$17500
1
Deposit
Investor
Amount
Wallet / Currency
Type
Halima Viekhan
$12,090
BTC
Withdrawal
Villa Maria
$9,250
LTC
Withdrawal
Scott Tammy
$900
BTC
Withdrawal
rostami Zahra
$354
TRC20
Withdrawal
Azlina Siti
$63,900
TRC20
Withdrawal
Are You Ready? Plus 10% Referral Bonus And more profits in Partnership
Join Us Now!
Investment Plans
Getting Started
Join Capital Wealth In 3 Easy Steps
Create Account
Sign-up for your Capital Wealth  Account by using the registeration form
Fund your Account
Activate your account by funding your Capital Wealth  wallet with minimum of $100
Start your Investment
Begin Your journey to financial freedom and growth, invest and earn!
Core Features
Why Choose Capital Wealth
Fast Executions
Capital Wealth  Investment transactions are automatic and fast.
Guide & Support
Our 24/7 support team is always available to guide you.
Financial Secure
Your money is safe with our highly secured system.
Reinvestment
Reinvestment is always available for our clients.
Capital Wealth  FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions
What is Capital Wealth all about?
Capital Wealth  operates as a financial company with licenses from of repute and global recognitions. We have helped individuals and groups to grow their assets through our amazing investment programme. We are registered in Switzerland in 2011, with certificate number:  851 253 7483
Are my Assets with Capital Wealth protected?
Capital Wealth Finance is a division of Canadian ShareOwner Investments Inc., a registered investment dealer and a member of Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC) and the Canadian Investor Protection Fund (CIPF). Customer accounts protected by CIPF within specified limits in the event ShareOwner becomes insolvent. A brochure describing the nature and limits of coverage is available upon request or at CIPF's website.
Who can invest with Capital Wealth?
Anyone with a paying job and wants to increase income and is over the age of 18. No accreditation required.
Do you offer bonuses on Referals?
Capital Wealth  offers  instant 10% on referal bonus and more for partners.
How to Deposit or Withdraw?
Capital Wealth  Transactions are seamless and processed by highly reliable systems, secured for your financial and personal security.
CRYPTO PARTNERS
Where to buy Coins
Testimonials
What Our Clients Say
My husband and I earned well over $50k in less than 12 months. I started with as little as $500 and increased my investment capital overtime. Capital Wealth is real, trust me.
Jenifer Browl
Mi estado financiero ha crecido mucho desde que me uní a este programa de inversión con CWFL. La atención al cliente ha sido muy útil, especialmente cuando comencé como un nuevo cliente. Pero ahora soy un profesional, comerciando y ganando con éxito.
Antonio J.
Capital Wealth have built a welcoming investment platform, crypto investors like me now have the ability to earn a return on their investment. I'd recommend this to anyone that wants to generate genuine income.
Bryan James
Bu yatırım şirketine katıldığımdan beri ailemin mali durumu çok iyi. Müşteri desteği, özellikle yeni bir müşteri olarak başladığımda faydalı oldu. Şimdi çok iyi yapıyorum.
Dilara ST.
Tôi không phải lúc nào cũng sử dụng đầu tư tiền điện tử nhưng khi đó, nó sẽ chỉ là những nền tảng đầu tư đáng tin cậy / đáng tin cậy được xây dựng bởi một nhóm tuyệt vời. Họ rất đáng tin cậy và hữu ích.
Janel Bfadi
We are A financial company of repute with global recognitions in FX investments.
Support:
support@capitalwealthfinance.com
Email:
info@capitalwealthfinance.com
Address:
Fortunastrasse 53, Erschwil, Solothurn, Switzerland
Quick Links
About
Investment Plans
Referral Programme
Blog
Privacy Policy
Newsletter
Get updated with our weekly newsletter.
Subscribe
What We Do
Investment Trending
Wealth Commitment
Coin Exchange
Copyright ©2022 Capital Wealth  Finance Ltd. All rights reserved.