XPro Markets | Global CFD Trading & Online Platform
en
Bahasa Melayu
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Português
srpski jezik
العربية
ภาษาไทย
한국어
简体中文
繁體中文
About
About XPro Markets
FAQ
Contact us
Complaints
Trading Accounts
Classic Account
Silver Account
Gold Account
Platinum Account
VIP Account
Swap Fees
Market Holidays
Product Specifications
Future expiries
Platforms
Webtrader Platform
Markets
Forex
Indices
Cryptocurrencies
Metals
Commodities
Shares
Become a Partner
Trading Tools
Trading Central
Economic Calendar
Chart Analysis
Legal
en
Bahasa Melayu
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Português
srpski jezik
العربية
ภาษาไทย
한국어
简体中文
繁體中文
Login
Create account
Hit the burning hot market assets
Own the variety that changes the world of trading
Start trading now
Start trading now
EUR/GBP
0.83591
0.000450 (+0.05%)
EUR/USD
1.08032
0.000570 (+0.05%)
GBP/USD
1.29198
0.000430 (+0.03%)
Gold
3009.44
-0.940000 (-0.03%)
YOUR INVESTMENT GOALS MADE EASY
XPro Markets would guide you through all the challenges of the modern market. No bureaucracy, endless waiting, and complicated commissions counting. Create your free account in 3 simple steps, deposit, and start trading right away. Now is a perfect time to start.
Open Account
Reach beyond boundaries and limits
Expand your market knowledge with the massive choice of educational materials. Whether you are new to trading or have passed some harsh trials of the market – you still can find exciting materials on CFDs, investment options, and best trading practices. Break the boundaries of own practices by reaching out to the new heights.
Start Trading
Reach beyond boundaries and limits
Design your individual trading experience
Intuitive interface, flexible customization for variety of assets, market and pending orders, advanced secured experience, execute trades in one click or use stop loss / take profit and trailing stop – these are just a few features of XPro Markets trading platform that allows you to design the transparency, consistency, and individuality of your trading style. All you need is internet connection and the desire to hit the burning hot market assets.
Web Trader
Design your individual trading experience
All the best trading opportunities at your feet
Opt-in for the best investment options. Upgrade your portfolio by trading CFDs on more than 160 assets. Enjoy zero fees and commissions, full 24/7 support, news alerts, and a functional demo training account by your side.
Spreads
flexible
Leverage up to
up to 1:400
An instant account in
3 steps
Ready to join?
Let's go!
More Info
Company Information: UKUCHUMA FINANCIAL SERVICES (PTY) LTD is a company incorporated in South Africa under registration number 2020/735868/07, with its registered office at Office 1-14 1st floor, Workshop 17, 138 West Street, Sandown Sandton Gauteng 2196, authorised and regulated by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA) of South Africa under license number 32535 to act as a Financial Service Provider.
Risk warning: Engaging in trading leveraged products such as Forex and derivatives entails significant risk to your capital and may not be appropriate for every investor. Before you trade, make sure you fully comprehend the risks involved, considering your investment objectives and experience level.
Regional Restrictions: UKUCHUMA FINANCIAL SERVICES (PTY) LTD does not offer its services to residents of South Africa, Japan, the European Union, or to any other jurisdiction where such distribution would be contrary to local laws and regulations.
UKUCHUMA FINANCIAL SERVICES (PTY) LTD does not issue advice, recommendations or opinions in relation to acquiring, holding or disposing of any financial product. UKUCHUMA FINANCIAL SERVICES (PTY) LTD is not a financial adviser and all services are provided on an execution only basis.
Sign in
Risk warning: Engaging in trading leveraged products such as Forex and derivatives entails significant risk to your capital and may not be appropriate for every investor. Before you trade, make sure you fully comprehend the risks involved, considering your investment objectives and experience level.
Risk warning
XPro Markets is a brand name of UKUCHUMA FINANCIAL SERVICES (PTY) LTD ('XPro Markets'). The official website address is https://ukuchumaltd.com/ and https://www.xpromarkets.com/.
ATTENTION:Lately, there have been emerging reports indicating that the brand name "XPro Markets" has been subjected to counterfeiting activities, where these replicas feature the altered trademark "XPro Market". These counterfeits exhibit striking resemblances in style, appearance, pronunciation, and lettering when compared to the authentic XPro Markets trademark