Xcapital - Blockchain-driven Investment Options
Powered by Smartsupp
Home
Company
Pricing
Real estate
Shareholders
Register
Login
We Provide
the best crypto mining investment options
Get investment portfolio tailored to meet you specific financial objectives
Create Account
Blockchain-Driven Assets
Our assets selection are blockchain-based and that is why we can guarantee high ROI for investors
Create Account
We Provide
we are leader in security innovation for crypto mining  and real estate investment
Diversification allows us to minimize risk for our clients and increase ROI across multiple markets
Create Account
Welcome To Xcapital
What We Do
Xcapital is a registered cryptocurrency mining and real estate investment company, the company offers a wide selection of crypto mining contracts with high and fixed interest return. Aiming for success with its international investor network, experienced team, Xcapital is managed under the leadership of people that create opportunity for low and high income earners who want to increase their financial status.
Cryptocurrency mining
Cryptocurrency Mining refers to the process of digitally adding transaction records to the blockchain, which is a publicly distributed ledger.
Security
Xcapital is among the  safest crypto companies in the world, and we are  leader in security innovation for mining products.
Manage portfolio
We create and manage client portfolio through our cryptocurrency mining software and real estate investment experts.
ABOUT XCAPITAL
Xcapital assists institutional clients looking to participate in digital asset markets including sourcing liquidity, trade execution, and safe custody.
Our founding team has over 50 years investment banking experience (including at Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Citibank, BNP Paribas, Lloyds) with a strong understanding of financial markets, trading, risk management, regulation and compliance. We have carried this experience forward into our digital asset framework to engage clients as they enter digital asset markets.
As digital assets become increasingly mainstream, we are engaging corporations to assist with formulating and executing a digital asset strategy.
Xcapital Group Ltd is a registered crypto-asset firm with the UK Financial Conduct Authority (Reference Number 929098) under the Money Laundering and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 in respect of its crypto-asset activities.
Founders: Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Citibank, BNP Paribas, Lloyds
How To Join
Investor Onboarding Process
Here's a description of how you can join us at Xcapital. Our work process is simple and direct, and laced with expertise.
Register
Select
Fund
Withdraw
Register A New Account
To join us at Xcapital, you first have to register for a new account. To register, click the SIGNUP button at the top of the page and fill the simple form.
Free to Register
Referral Bonus
No Country Restriction
Easy Registration Steps
Select Investment Plan
After complete registration of new account, next is to select the investment
plan that suits your budget and financial goals. Our plans are distributed
to adapt to your needs.
Adaptive Plan
High mining percentage
Match Plans to your Goals
Variety of Options
Plans are Written in Smart Contract
Fund Your Account
After selecting your preferred Plan, next thing to do is fund your account. You can fund using Bitcoin, Ethereum, usdt, Litecoin and bank transfer.
Direct funding
Fast funding reflection
Region-specific options
Zero cost of funding
Secure electronic channels
Withdraw Profits
As soon as your investment matures, your profit becomes available in your wallet, and can be withdrawn to your crypto wallet.
Instant Withdrawal
Zero withdrawal cost
Withdraw to local currency
Profits reflect in Wallet
Easy reinvestment from profits
Our Selected Assets
Here are our major instruments from which we build investors' portfolios. These instruments and their underlying assets were carefully selected, using high-end fundamental and technical analysis.
445,670
Satisfied Investors
9337
Consultations
014
Awards Won
07
Years Of Experience
OUR MISSION IS TO DELIVER GROWTH TO YOUR INVESTMENTS
Create clear, appropriate investment goals:
An appropriate investment goal should be measurable and attainable. Success should not depend on outsize investment returns or impractical saving or spending requirements.
Develop a suitable asset allocation using broadly diversified funds:
A sound investment strategy starts with an asset allocation befitting the portfolio's objective. The allocation should be built upon reasonable expectations for risk and returns and use diversified investments to avoid exposure to unnecessary risks.
Ready To Begin Your Financial Journey With Us?
Get In Touch Now
Fill in the form below and one of our consultants will
contact you without delay, and guide you through the investment process.
Submit
How can I signup for an Account?
To signup for a new account is easy and straightforward. All you have to do
is click on the Signup button at the top of the page and you will be redirected
to a Signup form. Simply fill the form and submit, and your account is ready.
It's that quick and easy with us!
What is the minimum/maximum investment amount?
We're flexible at Xcapital. Our investment capitals are adapted to investor
needs, and to the stipulated plans we have written out in our Pricing page.
To see the default plans, go over to the Pricing page from the menu and select
a plan that suits your budget and financial goals. But if you want a special
plan that's not in our Pricing Table, just make a request and if you qualify, you'll get it!
How secure is my investment?
Xcapital is one of the safest crypto mining and real estate investment company in the world and is an industry leader in security innovation for mining software and hardware, we use effective measures and tools for protection of our clients Personal Data, we can guarantee 100% security and protection to all our clients' information.
companies. Our investors have nothing to worry about at all!
Xcapital is a registered cryptocurrency mining and real estate investment company, the company offers a wide selection of crypto mining contracts, and we are leader in security innovation for mining software and hardware.
Company
About us
Pricing
Real estate
Contact us
Information
Incorporation
Faq
Privacy policy
Terms & conditions
© 2015 - 2023 Xcapital