Home
About
Services
Buy Crypto
Copy Trading
Trading Tools
Forex Charts
Index Charts
Crypto Market
Contact Us
Sign in
Sign up
Daytrade - Best Trading Platform
The right place for online trading on the financial markets
The most convenient trading interface. Instant access to more than 100 ./assets of the world's leading companies.
Get Started
Sign in
20
Years
Consulting Experience
25KK+
Satisfied Customers
We Have 10+ Years of experiance in standard professional services
A platform that allows novice traders to copy/mirror professional traders' positions. We create all of the materials to assist you in growing and progressing to the next level. We're delighted you came across Our Company. Don't pass up this chance to hear about what we do and the incredible team that makes it all possible! .
Learn More
services We offer
We offer world class services around - Check out some of our services below
Copy Trading
Copy trading allows you to directly copy the positions taken by another trader. You simply copy everything.
Financial Advisory
We offer financial advice leading to smart trading by automating processes and improving decision-making.
Forex Trading
Foreign Exchange Market, a global decentralized market for the trading of currencies.
Index Trading
The ROI rates as high as up to 41%. Indices contains about 0.24%, thus is rated as a sweet spot.
ETF Stocks
Buy stocks, commodities, bonds, and other securities and place them where they will grow.
CFDs
Trade directly on CFDs without stress. You don't need a digital wallet or an account with an exchange.
Our plans
Explore our plans to suit your financial budget
Starter
$1,000 - $5,000
30% ROI
24/7 Expert Support
Copy Trading
10% Referral Earnings
Start now
Silver
$5,000 - $50,000
45% ROI
24/7 Expert Support
Copy Trading
15% Referral Earnings
Start now
Gold
$50,000 - $100,000
60% ROI
24/7 Expert Support
Copy Trading
20% Referral Earnings
Start now
Platinum
$100,000 - above
80% ROI
24/7 Expert Support
Copy Trading
30% Referral Earnings
Start now
Mobarok Hossain
Expert Trader
Earn up to 80% return on investment
The professionalism of the team and experience have allowed us to create a technological and reliable tool for investors!
Learn More
our Commitment to help growing your business
Building a Better Trading
Future
Provide a Trading
Experience
The Experts Behind Your
Success
Empowering Traders
Worldwide
Dive in
%
Satisfied clients
Why Choose us?
Here are a few reasons why you should choose Daytrade
Real-time data
Transact Crypto, Forex, ETF's and other investments anywhere at anytime.
24/7 Online Support
Our team of professionals and Investment experts are always here to support you.
Higher Security
Protection against third party attacks and full data encryption.
Multiple Deposit Options
You can deposit from any crypto wallet and your crypto assets will be stored securely.
Instant Withdrawal
Withdrawals are processed instantly after confirmation.
Transparency
Performance statistics, including Requote, Slippage and Order Execution.
Trade on world class platform
What our Customers  say
Contact us
I love this platform 100%
James Craig
Trader
I have had so many bad experiences but since I joined , I have enjoyed trading.
Memphis Daniel
Customer
Most common FAQ
I can't sign in to my account?
It is likely that you are entering incorrect authentication data. If you can't remember the password to your account, you will need use the password recovery function. Press the button "Forgot password ?"on the account login page, and then follow the instructions. If the email didn't arrive in your Inbox, check your Spam folder.
What is Copy Stop Loss?
Copy Stop Loss (CSL) is an instruction to close a copy if the value of the entire copy drops below a specific dollar amount or ratio. You can use this to protect your investment - to automatically sell the copy investment if its value goes down. CSL is mandatory on every copy (both CopyTrader™ and Smart Portfolios). You can set the CSL anywhere between 5% and 95%.
What are the disadvantages of online trading?
You don’t need to worry, the interface is user-friendly. Anyone can use it smoothly. Our user manual will help you to solve your problem. If you do find yourself needing some help, feel free to reach out to our support team through our Contact page, or visit our Support Center.
.
How do I make a deposit?
To deposit funds in your Daytrade account, you may choose any of the available methods of payment in your country and follow these instructions.  Log in to your. Click on 'Deposit'. Enter the amount you wish to deposit. Select the method of payment from the dropdown menu. Copy wallet address if crypto deposit is selected.
What is Copy Trading?
As the name implies, it is 'Copying Trades' from an experienced trader. You simply select a trader and copy whatever trades they place.
What level of support do you offer?
We are available 24/7 to offer support if you encounter any issues while using this platform.
How do I withdraw my profits?
It is very easy to place withdrawals. Simply login to your account and click 'Withdrawal'. Next enter the withdrawal amount and your desired withdrawal method. Select an account to withdraw from and click proceed.
Is it safe to share my info here?
Our services are done in confidentiality, we do not share any of our user data. Kindly see our privacy policy for more clarification.
How long are withdrawals proceessed?
Payments occur in Instant mode (Instantly) or within 24/hours.
Do you offer referrals?
Yes, we have a referral program. Check your user dashboard to see your unique referral link.
We help your money grow by putting it to work. Not just by words. Our experts ensure not only that your funds are at work, but are put in carefully planned and strategically diversified trading and investment portfolio for risk management.
Quick links
About Us
Forex Charts
Index Charts
Crypto Charts
Support
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Risk Disclosure
Support Center
Company
Copy Trading
Stock Trading
Forex Trading
Crypto Trading
© 2025 All Rights Reserved By Daytrade
LIVE_CHAT
Powered by Daytrade