Leading Recovery Solutions Expert - DG Consultants
Home
About Us
Services
Binary Options Fraud
Cryptocurrency Fraud
Investment Fraud
Liquidity Mining Scam
Property and Asset Scam
Chargebacks
Contact
FAQs
Free Consultation
D
G
C
O
N
S
U
L
T
Asset Management
Leading
recovery solutions expert.
Your #1 Financial Recovery Firm leading the fight against Unregulated and fraudlent Binary Options, FOREX, Crypto Currency, CFD and any other scams.
Get a free consultation
$5M Recovered in 2024
99% Success Rate
28
K
Clients assisted in recovery services
Fraud Investigation and Analysis
Cryptocurrency Recovery
Financial Forensics
Legal Support and Consultation
Risk Assessment & Prevention
File a Complaint
Share your fraud experience with us, and we will initiate the recovery process promptly.
Case Evaluation & Investigation
Our dedicated team meticulously evaluates all provided information and leverages our extensive network and resources to investigate your case thoroughly.
Cyber Analytics & Fund Delivery
We utilize state-of-the-art technology and resources to address each case efficiently, ensuring timely and effective recovery of your assets.
We will assist you in any issue and conflict.
We offer a wide range of blockchain investigations, dispute assistance, evidence preparation and consulting for businesses and individuals. Our company is home to some of the brightest minds that have been brought together for their problem solving mindset and wide ranging skills.
Award Winning Company
100+
Global Recognition
Our Services
Recovery services we offer
Fraud Recovery
Data breaches enable fraud by exposing personal and financial information, allowing criminals to harm individuals, businesses, and public services.
01
Anti Money Laundering Schemes
Money laundering threatens national security, prosperity, and international reputation. High-end laundering, involving large illicit funds through financial sectors, undermines global financial integrity. We focus on combating illicit finances from both domestic and international criminal activity.
02
Bribery, corruption and sanctions evasion
Bribery, corruption, and sanction evasion threaten national security, prosperity, and reputation. We work globally to investigate offenders, recover illicit funds, and return them to victims.
03
20 Years of Experience
Success Rate
Recovered in 2024
Our Work Process
01
File a Complaint
We attend to every case with a state-of-the-art technology and resources for efficient service delivery.
02
Case Evaluation & Investigation
Our team investigates every information provided and put our contact & resources to use.
03
Cyber Analytics & Fund Delivery
We attend to every case with a state-of-the-art technology and resources for efficient service delivery.
Team Members
Meet the talented team form our company
Chief Executive Officer
Donald Gallagher
Director
Gary Low
Senior Associate
Maria Klass
Recovery Consultant
Timo Imani
Recovery Consultant
Patrick McGinley
Recovery Consultant
George Baake
Recovery Consultant
James Brunson
Senior Programmer
Ben Forbes
3926
+
Successful Recoveries
124
+
Global Recognition
56
+
Solutions Experts
1762
+
Happy Clients
The best service ever
“Donald Gallagher Consultants are the absolutely best! they are always there for me from the start to the end of each of the process. They are so knowledgeable and understand the system so well. The service was professional and generous. I’m still waiting for a refund from the bank. It’s in the proce...”
Rosie Pearson
Houston, TX
Awesome opportunities
“They were very understanding, no judgement. Easy to get a hold of. Good communication at all times. My case manager were fantastic. I have been able to get half of what I lost back. This service has been a life saver. I started this journey in September of 2021 and continue to work with this company...”
Peter Russo
Monaco
Awesome opportunities
“I lost over €60,000 to an investment fraud platform. They tricked me into trading with them and took all my life savings. No one could help me. I contacted “Donald Gallagher Consultants”. I was doubtful, but a former client convinced me. It took a month of working on my case and i started seeing res...”
Yan Shui
Beijing
Want to connect?
support@donaldgallagherconsultants.co
Call us anytime
+1(801)917-6347, +1(708)880-7232
Our Location
102 S200E Ste 100,Salt Lake City, UT 84111,United States
Trustpilot
Quick Links
Company Profile
Help Center
FAQs
Our Team
Our Services
Binary Options Fraud
Cryptocurrency Fraud
Investment Fraud
Liquidity Mining Scam
Property and Asset Scam
Chargebacks
Join our subscribers list to get the latest  news and special offers.
I agree to the privacy policy
© 2025 Donald Gallagher Consultants. All rights reserved
Terms
Privacy
Support