Home - E-Vast Intelligence LTD                              E-Vast Intelligence LTDCrypto, Hack and Fund Recovery Firm  Home   Consultation   Help Desk   Recovery Tools   REPORT    Lost money to online fraud? We will recover your funds !Before its too late...With us you will have wealth recovery experts who know all the tricks and inner workings of international scammers on your side.With the help of our legal specialists, cyber forensic investigators, and years of experience in funds recovery, we can track and expose the fraud so you can exercise your rights and recover your money.Want your funds back? Contact us as soon as possible - every minute counts!   REPORT A CASE    Login To HelpDesk    Recovery tools    OURSERVICESFund And Crypto RecoveryLost/Stolen Asset InvestigationsCryptocurrency TracingRecover Assets from Fraud.For Bitcoin, Ethereum, and other stolen or lost digital assets.  Request ServiceSocial Media  Recovery ServicesLocked AccountDisabled AccountHacked AccountDeactivated AccountBack-Up CodeFor Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, TikTok, Snapchat, and WhatsApp accounts.  Request ServiceInvestigation ReportsCyber InvestigationCorporate EspionagePrivate InvestigationPhysical Investigation and SurveillanceBackground & Due Diligence Request ServiceSurvilance and MonitoringCheating Spouse SpyingCovert SurveillanceCommunications IntelligenceAnti Bribery & CorruptionEquipment Interference Request ServiceWatch ThisClick play   APPS & SERVICESWE RECOVEERWhat We Can Do For You. Crypto Recovery PayPal Funds Recovery Social Media Recovery Facebook Recovery TikTok Recovery Twitter RecoveryNOT JUST CRYPTO NOR SOCIAL MEDIA,  OTHER CATEGORIES OF INDUSTRIES WE SERVEServices by Industry     Healthcare      Banking & Finance      Education      Government      IT & Software      Manufacturing      Service Based How Do We Recover Funds And Accounts1Report An Hack Case and chat with a technical assistant agent who will help you.2Our Agent Try and Obtain a backup of your account from the App Providers3We Develop attack strategy and build the tools necessary for the recovery.4We Secure the release of your account or Fund.Why Choose Us?We deliver Advanced Security for Advanced Threat!We provide unique services to match the current trends in the industry. Our team of professionals are skilled to take care of your security threats in this cyber world.Wide range of services to meet all your Business and PersonalRequirementsExperience meets Expertise at E-Vast IntelligenceProactive, Customized Approach, with Exceptional Customer Service Frequently Asked Questions          What is Account/Fund Recovery Account Recovery is a process in which we try to recover your Lost or Hacked Account or Stolen Funds.          Are you really Certified to Recover my Account? Yes, we are a team of Experienced & ISO 27001 Certified Cyber Security Experts. We have helped over 5000+ individuals recover their lost or hacked Social Media Accounts and Stolen Cryptocurrencies. With us 100% Satisfaction is Guaranteed!          Is this Account Recovery Service Free or Paid? Yes, it’s a Paid service.          How much time it would take? The amount of time is different from case to case. Some cases take hours and a few one or two days.          Is my data safe with you? Being a Cyber Security Company we take extra care to protect any type of data or information you share with us.   Get in touch with us! Before its too LATE!!!     Send Message   WE'VE BEEN FEATURED ON    Testimonials what our customers are saying I can highly recommend E-Vast Intelligence Domain; my social media account got hacked, and not being tech-savvy I was unable to login or reset my password. The team was very efficient and clear communicators who broke down the entire process for me. I would recommend E-Vast Intelligence again to anyone who needs social media recovery, and they managed to recover nearly all my data. I am delighted with their service - keep up the good work!Christine Anderson"Quick and Easy Recovery Process"   I have had an amazing experience using this company. Brilliant communication right from the start and throughout the whole job, keeping me informed and up to date with what was happening. Awesome customer service, they explained everything very clearly and upfront. The turnaround time was very quick.
I would highly recommend this company.Gemma Murphy"Brilliant company. Highly recommend"   Having read some horror stories on the internet I was cautious with regard to who to hire for my recovery. However, they kept me informed on every step of the way and all required data was recovered. Fantastic service!Bjarni Sinjin"Fantastic Service!"   I had all my crypto investments stored in my digital wallet when a software update messed everything up. I could no longer get the software program to work to access my private keys so I could trade my currencies. Thank goodness this firm came to the rescue. Within a matter of days, the problem was fixed and I’m now able to access my wallet again. Thanks to the team.Denis"They came to my rescue"   My Bitcoin was stolen, The in-charge person of this agency did a recovery job and increased the security of my account. They were very reachable on WhatsApp chats and completed the work within the time frame I needed. Would hire again for sure. I would highly recommend them.Zack"I got my stolen bitcoins back"   I had an old hard drive with Bitcoin on it that I mined years ago. Unfortunately, when I tried to get it up and running again, the data was corrupted. The team helped me to recover the Bitcoin I had on it even after I thought it was a lost cause. My old investment paid off big time and I was able to reap the rewards thanks to the professionals here.Kriemhild Lata"They are Professionals"   I cannot believe my own eyes!! My Instagram has been hacked for a month now, I was helpless and didn’t know what to do, and I found this company luckily and the way they approached my issue was marvelous, he has knowledge about everything that the hacker did to my account without me even telling him, and he started to work on the account overnight and brought it back, the kind of assurance and hope and confidence he gave me that im gonna get my account back is mindblowing! Im beyond thankful to getting my instagram back because this account means everything, life to me!!! Thank you thank you!Christine Siketh Baaly."I was Amazed"   Help was extremely helpful and I was able to get my instagram account back that was hacked. Took the time and effort into recovering my account that was hacked and made it fast and easy. Thank you so much!Dallas"Help Was Useful"   Thank you guys so much for saving my account!!! Really helpful and professional I recommend it to anyone in need for fast recovery for his/her instagram account
God bless you.Limbani Anna"Fantastic Service!"   I couldn't access My Blockchain account cause it was hacked, as it was probably blocked by hosts due to the hack. The Team was a big help then. They were always available and helped me understand every bit of it. They did some hack recovery and quickly resolved the issues. Good experience overall.Karishma Vena"I had good experience during the recovery process"   I have had an amazing experience using this company. Brilliant communication right from the start and throughout the whole job, keeping me informed and up to date with what was happening. Awesome customer service, they explained everything very clearly and upfront. The turnaround time was very quick. I would highly recommend this company.Kathy"Awesome customer service   Having read some horror stories on the internet I was cautious with regard to who to hire for my recovery. However, the team kept me informed every step of the way, and all stolen coins were recovered. Fantastic service!Mira"Fantastic Service"   They did an amazing job! He was successfully able to retrieve my account for me in a timely manner.Jessy M."Amazing Job"   Great company. They Got my Instagram back!!!! Highly recommendJosiah J."Great company. Highly recommend"   The Team was excellent as always, this is the third time we are taking help from them. They have helped us recover our accounts every time successfully. I would say he is the best in the business. Thanks you.Andrea Dudgeon"My account was recovered fast!"   The contractor definitely knows to regain access to a
hacked Instagram account. We're almost unsure about needing
their skills in the beginning. But I was always confident
that we hired the right team for the ethical hacking job.
Would hire again in the future.Gary Davies"I was Confident on the Process"   I'm an Actress, after my Instagram got hacked, my PA suggested we reach out to this firm, they helped me regain my account.Trisha Krishna"I Got back my Instagram   I couldn't access My facebook account as it was probably
blocked by hosts due to hack. This firm was a big help
then. They were always available and helped me understand
every bit of it. They did some hack recovery and quickly
resolved the issues. Good experience overall.Kamala Suhrwardy"My Hacked Facebook Was Regained!"   Incredibly friendly, down-to-earth, savvy, and honest people. Salvage-data fully recovered all of my data from 4 external drives. They gave me the best price compared to the other data recovery stores. What I like the most, is if you ask questions they are willing to help you out and they are not trying to sell you products. Their main focus is what they do best – recovering your accounts from hacks.Peter Harrall"Friendly Services"   My husband of 9 years has been cheating on me, tho I suspected but when I confront him he always denies it, I hired this firm to help me get proof so I can confidently file a divorce, I'm happy they came through for me.Sandra Jones"Excellent service, communication, speed, and pricing. Highly recommend."   Having read some horror stories on the internet about cheating partners, I was so scared cos ve been seeing traces of cheating on my wife, I detest infidelity, so I hired this firm to help me out, they did catch her by spying on her messages, we re divorced now. Fantastic service!Michael Lee"Thy spied on my cheating partners messages!"  E-Vast Intelligence LTDCrypto, Hack and Fund Recovery Firm SECURITY CONSULTATIONCyber Crime InvestigationData Breach AnalysisCyber Attack AnalysisData RecoveryAccount RecoveryIMPORTANT PAGESHomeContact Us          Login To HelpDesk  © 2012 - 2025 E-Vast Intelligence LTD. All rights reserved. Shopping Basket