FXNovus | CFD Trading on Forex, Cryptocurrencies & Stocks
en
Bahasa Melayu
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Português
العربية
हिन्दी
ภาษาไทย
简体中文
繁體中文
About
About
FAQ
Contact Us
Complaints
Trading accounts
Trading accounts
Classic Account
Silver Account
Gold Account
Platinum Account
Vip Account
Swap Fees
Product Specifications
CFD Expiries
Market Holidays
Markets
Forex
Commodities
Indices
Shares
Cryptocurrencies
Metals
Platforms
Webtrader
Trading App
Trading Tools
Education
Trading central
Chart Analysis
Economic calendar
Become partner
Legal
Legal
Legal
Privacy policy
More
en
Bahasa Melayu
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Português
العربية
हिन्दी
ภาษาไทย
简体中文
繁體中文
Login
Open account
Trade with the World’s No.1 CFD Provider
Where Advanced Trading Meets Effortless Execution
Competitive trading conditions for the most beneficial results
A multi-device platform for smooth access at all times
Exceptional support for a comfortable trading journey
Open Account
Start Trading
EUR/GBP
0.83573
0,000380 (+0,05%)
EUR/USD
1.07981
0,000060 (+0,01%)
GBP/USD
1.29162
0,000050 (+0,00%)
Gold
3013.27
2,890000 (+0,10%)
An Unbeatable Trading Experience
Take your trading to the next level with FXNovus, where you can create sophisticated strategies to master market volatility. We ensure a smooth trading journey with 20+ analytics tools, cross-platform trading functionality, a diverse asset selection, and award winning support.
Open Account
Learn How to Trade Like a Pro
With a wealth of free educational tools and resources, you can boost your trading expertise and navigate the markets with ease.
Learn More
Learn How to Trade Like a Pro
Trade Anytime, Anywhere
The FXNovus WebTrader Platform
Get instant access to our trading platform by joining FXNovus. Access the market whenever and wherever you like using your preferred device, be it a laptop, tablet, or smartphone.
Start Trading
Trade Anytime, Anywhere
The FXNovus WebTrader Platform
Where Technology Meets Integrity
At FXNovus, we combine cutting-edge technology, expert knowledge, and unwavering integrity. With no commission fees and a commitment to 100% data protection, we provide a secure and stable trading environment for every individual trader.
Spreads
Flexible
Leverage Up to
1:400
An Instant Account in
3 Steps
Ready to Start?
Let's Go!
More Info
Company Information: FXNovus (PTY) LTD, a company registered in South Africa with registration number 2020 / 183344 / 07 and with its registered address at Nr 1 Casino Road, Foundershill, Office G31 Modderfontein Estate, Johannesburg, 1609 South Africa, is regulated and supervised by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority to act as a financial services provider under FSP License No 50963. FXNovus (PTY) LTD is in the same group of companies as Peaksight Ltd, incorporated and having its registered address at Arch. Makariou III & Kalograion 4, Nicolaides Sea View City, Flat/Office 903-904, Block A-B, 6016, Larnaca, Cyprus, under registration number HE433420 and supervised by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission under CIF license number 440/23.
Risk warning: Trading Leveraged Products such as Forex and Derivatives may not be suitable for all investors as they carry a high degree of risk to your capital. Please ensure that you fully understand the risks involved, taking into account your investments objectives and level of experience.
Regional Restrictions: FXNovus (PTY) LTD does not offer its services to residents of the European Union, South Africa, or to any other jurisdiction where such distribution would be contrary to local laws and regulations.
FXNovus (PTY) LTD does not issue advice, recommendations or opinions in relation to acquiring, holding or disposing of any financial product. Past performance does not constitute a reliable indicator of future results. Future forecasts do not constitute a reliable indicator of future performance. FXNovus (PTY) LTD is not a financial advisor and all services are provided on an execution only basis.
Risk warning: Trading Leveraged Products such as Forex and Derivatives may not be suitable for all investors as they carry a high degree of risk to your capital. Please ensure that you fully understand the risks involved, taking into account your investments objectives and level of experience.
Risk warning
Sign in
Forgot password?
Log in
New to FXNovus?
Open Account
Risk Warning: CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to leverage. Between 74-89% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. Risk Disclosure Statement.
Don't miss out out market updates
Price alerts, Signals and trading insights communicated to you directly
Got it