FX$tock Corporation Ltd
F
X
$
T
O
C
K
Home
About
Trading
Services
Blogs
Contact
Sign In
Sign Up
Sign In
Sign Up
Fxstock
World No: 1 Forex Trading Community Platform
Fxstock provides ECN Trading Account for those traders who only want to trade with an ECN
Account. We work in good faith and traders' delight is our ultimate goal.
Get Started
Contact Us
Our Awesome Services
Our Best Service
View All
We are TRUE ECN Forex Broker
Fxstock provides ECN Trading Account for those traders who only want to trade with an ECN
Account. We work in good faith and traders' delight is our ultimate goal.
Tier 1 Liquidity Providers
We work with top tier 1 liquidity providers like Standard Chartered, Barclays Capital,
Bank of America, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Deutche Bank, LMAX etc. Our Forex Trader
Clients get best liquidity at all times.
Excellent Fund Withdrawal Process
We have a clearly defined fund withdrawal process and SOPs in place. We have every
intention to provide you with best Forex Trading Solution right from deposit to trading
to withdrawal.
FXSTOCK Market Our Own Trading Platform
In our commitment to provide our forex traders with best trading experience, we not only
have tied up with tier 1 liquidity providers but we avail legendary FXSTOCK Market
Trading Platform. We offer both Desktop and Mobile Applications.
White label solution
Fxstock offers the one-stop White Label solutions to help brokers start their own
businesses promptly, allowing them to have their own branded trading platform at
affordable prices.
Fxstock Solution
Fxstock has partnered with a number of liquidity providers to offer clients a variety of
hedging solutions. Brokers can freely switch between A-Book and B-Book modes according
to their business needs, so as to control risks and maximize profits.
About Us
Welcome To Fxstock
Fxstock is a London, UK based company that has obtained a regulatory license from the
London, UK Financial Regulatory Agency. We also hold a digital asset management
license. In 2022, Fxstock will officially launch our global financial products and
digital asset trading platform, providing global users with a one-stop diversified
financial service platform.
Our Mission
After over a decade of placing ourselves in the place of our traders,
PCM International has summarized all the essentials to succeed in
trading into 3 words: Precision, Clarity, Mindfulness.
Read More
Fxstock
Our Key Points
STRONG SECURITY
Protection against DDoS attacks, full data encryption
WORLD COVERAGE
Providing services in 99% countries
around all the globe
PAYMENT OPTIONS
Popular methods: Visa, MasterCard,
bank transfer, cryptocurrency
MOBILE APP
Trading via our Mobile App, Available
in Play Store & App Store
COST EFFICIENCY
Reasonable trading fees for takers
and all market makers
HIGH LIQUIDITY
Fast access to high liquidity orderbook
for top currency pairs
Our Awesome Features
Fxstock
"At Fxstock, we provide our clients with the FXSTOCK Market platform to enable them
to carry out their trading activities efficiently and with complete peace of mind.
We also offer educational material, as well as FXSTOCK Market Demo accounts, so they
can practice risk-free trading."
Working along with us will let you attain a combination of several great qualities
like technical innovation and industry expertise. We tend to deliver the best
liquidity levels and real time quotes to our clients with a lot of other benefits.
Powerful Analytics
Digital Solutions
Creative Content
0000
+
Monthly Trading
0000
+
Country Coverage
0000
+
Active Clients
0000
+
Member
How It Works
There Are Three Main Categories
1
Advanced Analytics
2
High Scalability
3
Automatic Updates
Our team is experienced
FOREX MARKET EXPERTS
24 Hours Operations
The Market operates 24 hours a day, 5 days a week.
Convenient Transactions
No matter where you are, you can easily conduct transactions through the
internet.
Flexible Leverage
Forex traders often use leverage to profit from relatively small price
changes in currency pairs.
High Liquidity
Forex market has daily trading volume of US$6 trillion.
Huge Transaction Volume
The average daily trading volume in the forex market far exceeds that of
other financial products.
Two-way Transaction
We allow user to make a two way transaction in forex trading.A two way
transaction is more informative tha the usual.
FXSTOCK Market
FXSTOCK Market TRADER
FXSTOCK Market is a trading software designed for professional and experienced investment clients. By adopting FXSTOCK Market, Fxstock has chosen a world-class trading platform that ensures faster, more stable, and efficient transactions for users. FXSTOCK Market is compatible with various desktop and mobile operating systems, including macOS, Windows, iOS, and Android.
FXSTOCK Market also includes features and trading functionalities that are better
than many other online trading platforms available today.
FXSTOCK Market
FXSTOCK Market TRADER
A similar graphical interface will help you get used to the platform quickly, while
unique integration with centralised exchange enables traders to trade commodities
and indices in addition to Forex. Traders can place eight types of pending orders to
get more precise control over open positions. FXSTOCK Market allows intraday swing
trading or position trading.
FXSTOCK Market Software has increased the number of technical analysis tools. After
over a decade of placing ourselves in the place of our traders, PCM International
has summarized all the essentials to succeed in trading into 3 words: Precision,
Clarity, Mindfulness.
Risk
An investment in derivatives may mean investors may lose an amount even greater than
their original investment. Anyone wishing to invest in any of the products mentioned
on our website www.fxstockcorp.com, should seek their own financial or professional
advice. Trading of securities, forex, stock market, commodities, options, and
futures may not be suitable for everyone and involves the risk of losing part or all
your money. Trading in the financial markets has large potential rewards, but also
large potential risk. You must be aware of the risks and be willing to accept them
to invest in the markets. Do not invest and trade with money which you cannot afford
to lose. Forex Trading is not allowed in some countries, before investing your
money, make sure whether your country is allowing this or not.
You are strongly advised to obtain independent financial, legal and tax advice
before proceeding with any currency or spot metals trade. Nothing on this site
should be read or construed as constituting advice on the part of FXST Corporation
Ltd. or any of its subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers, or employees.
Fxstock
Payment Option
Our Blog
See Our Latest News
25 July 2022
By Admin
No Comment
The Best Remote UX And UI Design Conferences
27 July 2022
By Admin
No Comment
Technology Is Very Important Present And Future
29 July 2022
By Admin
No Comment
Most Finance Chart Powerful Features To Build Anything
FXSTOCK CORPORATION
Fxstock provides ECN Trading Account for those traders who only want to trade with an ECN Account. We work in good faith and traders' delight is our ultimate goal.
FXSTOCK CORPORATION is a tradename of our group of companies, FXST CORPORATION LTD (Saint Lucia) and FXSTOCK CORPORATION LIMITED (UK).
FXST Corporation Ltd., our IBC registered in Saint Lucia with the incorporation number 2024-00269.
FXSTOCK CORPORATION LIMITED, incorporated in the UK with CRN: 14228110.
Useful Link
About Us
Latest Blog
trading
Overview
Contact Us
Services
Get Started
Get In Touch
info@fxstockcorp.com
UK Registered office address: 128 City Road, London, United Kingdom, EC1V 2NX.
Saint Lucia Registered office address: Ground Floor, The Sotheby Building, Rodney Village, Bay, Gros lslet, Saint Lucia.
Physical office address: Floor No.: 5th FLOOR
Building No./Flat No.: OFFICE NO. - 511
Name Of Premises/Building: SECTOR -86
Locality/Sub Locality: SS Omnia
City/Town/Village: Gurugram
District: Gurugram
State: Haryana
PIN Code:122004.
Disclaimer: Information on this site is not directed at residents in any country or jurisdiction where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
©2024 FXSTOCK CORPORATION LIMITED.