Forex Broker Malaysia | FX Currency Trading - FXCM
Notice: 2025 Standard Time to Daylight Saving Time Product Trading Schedule
Open Account
TRY DEMO
Deposit Funds
MYFXCM
Launch Platform
Trading Station Web 3.0
MT4 Web
Contact
中文
Malay
Accounts
Markets
Platforms
Resources
About FXCM
Support
Partnership
Promotions NEW!
Open Account
Open An Account
Active Trader
Corporate Clients
Account Manage
MyFXCM
VPS Hosting
Exclusive Offer
Referral Program
PRODUCTS
Commodities
Forex
Shares New! Japan Shares
Indices
Cryptocurrencies
TRADING BASKETS
Forex Baskets
Stock Baskets
CryptoMajor
TRADING DETAILS
Spread Costs
Leverage and Margin
Execution
CFD Expirations
Dividend Calendar
Trading Hours
POPULAR
EUR/USD
Gold Trading
Trading Crude Oil
What is Bitcoin
Platforms
Trading Station
MetaTrader 4
TradingView
Compare Platforms
Research
Economic Calendar
Earnings Calendar
Market News
Live Forex Charts
Trading Tools
FXCM PLUS
FXCM Apps
Market Scanner
FXCM Hub Available on iOS!
eFXplus
Education
Learn Forex Trading
Successful Traders
Trading With FXCM
Global Broker
Awards and Accolades
International Offices
Who We Are
FXCM Latest News
Execution
Execution Transparency
Slippage Statistics
TradingView
Referral Program
Contact Us
Contact FXCM
Trading Desk
Partnership
Institutional Services
Account Types
FXCM Exclusive OffersUp to $11,500 in Bundle Bonuses
Open Account
Learn More
Terms and conditions apply
Trade with only $50
An FXCM account lets you start small and includes tools to help you develop good trading habits right from the start.
Open An Account
Friends & Family Referral Promotion
Recommend friends and family to open an FXCM account and earn up to $3,000 in rewards each year.
START REFERRING NOW
Get free access to TradingView Platform with FXCM
Trade directly on TradingView's platform with our broker integration
Learn More
A Single Account. Multiple Markets.
With FXCM, you can tap into many markets to find potential trading opportunities. You enjoy access to a variety of products like:
Forex
EUR/USD
USD/JPY
GBP/USD
AUD/USD
JPN SHARES
Toyota (7203.jp)
Mitsubishi (8058.jp)
Nintendo (7974.jp)
Sony (6758.jp)
US SHARES (24 HOURS)
Tesla (TSLA.ext)
Apple (AAPL.ext)
Nvidia (NVDA.ext)
Amazon (AMZN.ext)
Crypto
Bitcoin
Ether
Litecoin
Stellar
Trade Now
Super Tight Spread
Spreads Widget: When static spreads are displayed, the figures reflect a time-stamped snapshot as of when the market closes. Spreads are variable and are subject to delay. Single Share prices are subject to a 15 minute delay. The spread figures are for informational purposes only. FXCM is not liable for errors, omissions or delays, or for actions relying on this information.
Trade directly online with TradingView
Go To TradingView
FXCM TradingView
Explore brand new features: Volume profile indicators, multiple charts layout, advanced price scaling and many more!
Obtain an exclusive badge next to your name along with custom resolutions for symbols.
Access TradingView Live Trading Integration with FXCM to trade directly from your TradingView charts.
LOOKING FOR A NEW MT4 BROKER?
METATRADER 4
Experience no 3rd party bridges.
Utilise all Trading Strategies including Scalping.
Gain free EAs (Expert Advisors) and Virtual Private Server (VPS) access¹ with your MT4 account.
Go To MetaTrader 4
OUR TOP PLATFORM, BUILT FOR YOU
Trading Station
Unleash robust chart tools on an award-winning platform — great for technical traders.
Explore powerful, preloaded tools like Real Volume, Market Depth, and Trader Sentiment.
Customise your experience: Download indicators, create watch lists and custom layouts to adapt the platform for your strategy.
Go To Trading Station
Download Now
Desktop App
Download
Get TradingView Pro for FREE²
Gain access to this special offer from one of our long-term partners.
Learn More
Deposit Method
FXCM provides you with multiple secured and quick funding channels. Visit MYFXCM and deposit with cards, wire or try our crypto funding, offering 11 options with no conversion fees.
MyFXCM
FXCM: A LEADING CFD & FOREX BROKER
Around the world, FXCM offices provide forex, Cryptocurrency Trading and CFD trading services.
We're here for you. Our customer service has won many regional and international awards for being there when you need us, 24/5.
So, whether you're new to online trading or you're an experienced investor, FXCM has customisable account types and services for all levels of retail traders. Join FXCM traders around the world.
Open an account with FXCM today
DISCLOSURE
¹ At the beginning of the month (between 1st and 15th), a fee equal to 30 units of the base currency (3,000 JPY, 240 HKD) will be debited from any of your FXCM Account(s) to cover the VPS cost for each subscription. Only Active Trader clients subject to tier pricing on spread costs receive a free VPS.
² Service Provider: FXCM is an independent legal entity and is not affiliated with TradingView. FXCM does not endorse any product or service of TradingView. Nothing associated with this promotion shall be considered a solicitation to buy or an offer to sell any product or service to any person in any jurisdiction where such offer, solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the laws of regulations of such jurisdiction.
Intermediary Markup: In some instances, accounts for clients of certain intermediaries are subject to a markup.
Active Trader Accounts: Active Trader accounts offers spreads plus mark-up pricing or spreads plus commission pricing depending on your equity level and trading volume.
Enhanced CFD Execution: There are no stop and limit restrictions on major indices.
Spreads Widget: When static spreads are displayed, the figures reflect a time-stamped snapshot as of when the market closes. Spreads are variable and are subject to delay. Single Share prices are subject to a 15 minute delay. The spread figures are for informational purposes only. FXCM is not liable for errors, omissions or delays, or for actions relying on this information.
Risk Warning: Our service includes products that are traded on margin and carry a risk of losses in excess of your deposited funds. The products may not be suitable for all investors. Please ensure that you fully understand the risks involved.
ABOUT FXCM
About FXCM
International Offices/Sites
Press Releases
FXCM Latest News
Awards
CHOOSE COUNTRY
South East Asia (English)
International (English)
UK (English)
Australia (English)
Canada (English)
Canada (Français)
European Economic Area (English)
China (中文)
Deutschland (Deutsch)
France (Français)
Italia (Italiano)
Español
Ελλάδα (Ελληνικά)
Indonesia (Bahasa)
Malaysia (Bahasa Melayu)
South East Asia (English)
South Africa (English)
Thailand (แบบไทย)
Vietnam (Tiếng Việt)
العربية
Arabic (English)
ישראל (עברית)
Spain (España)
български
Polskie
Nederlands
Svenska
Dansk
Magyar
Slovenščina
Slovák
Română
PLATFORMS
Trading Station
MetaTrader 4
DOWNLOAD
Trading Station Desktop
MetaTrader 4
Mobile App
LAUNCH SOFTWARE
Trading Station Web 3.0
MT4 Web
ACCOUNTS
Risk Free Practice Account
Open An Account
Deposit Funds
RESOURCES
FXCM PLUS
Market News
FXCM Hub
Insights
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Chat with a Specialist 24/5
Contact Us
FXCM POLICIES
Cookie Policy & Settings
Privacy Policy
Trade on Trading Station
Stratos Global LLC ("FXCM") is incorporated in St Vincent and the Grenadines with company registration No. 1776 LLC 2022 and is an operating subsidiary within the Stratos group of companies. FXCM is not required to hold any financial services license or authorization in St Vincent and the Grenadines to offer its products and services.
Risk Warning: Our products are traded on leverage which means they carry a high level of risk and you could lose more than your deposits. These products are not suitable for all investors. Please ensure you fully understand the risks and carefully consider your financial situation and trading experience before trading. Seek independent advice if necessary.
It is important that you read and consider the relevant legal documents associated with your account, including the Terms of Business issued by FXCM before you start trading.
The provided information is not directed at residents of the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, European Union, Hong Kong, Australia, Israel or Japan and is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person in any country or jurisdiction where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
All services and products accessible through the site www.fxcm-markets.com are provided by Stratos Global LLC with registered address Euro House, Richmond Hill Road, Kingstown, VC0100, St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
The FXCM Group is headquartered at 125 Old Broad Street, 9th Floor, London EC2N 1AR, United Kingdom. Stratos Markets Limited is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority. Registration number 217689. Registered in England and Wales with Companies House company number 04072877. Stratos Europe Limited (trading as "FXCM" or "FXCM EU") is a Cyprus Investment Firm (“CIF”) registered with the Cyprus Department of Registrar of Companies (HE 405643) and authorised and regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (“CySEC”) under license number 392/20. Stratos Trading Pty. Limited is regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, AFSL 309763. Stratos Trading Pty. Limited ABN 31 121 934 432. FXCM South Africa (PTY) Ltd is an authorized Financial Services Provider and is regulated by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority under registration number 46534. FXCM Trading Ltd. (“FXCM TL” or under its trade name “FXCM Israel), was incorporated in Israel, and its official registrar number is 515234623. FXCM TL is an authorized and licensed company, supervised by the Israeli Securities Authority.
Mobile Trademarks: iPhone, iTunes and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Android and Google Play are trademarks of Google LLC.
© 2025 This website is owned and operated by FXCM. All rights reserved.
Website Terms
Privacy Policy
General Business Terms
Rate Card
Complaints
Risk Warning
FATCA FAQs
CRS FAQs