Chat with us, powered by LiveChat
Home
About
Faqs
Terms & Condition
Contact
Register
Login
England Wales, 71-75 Shelton St, WC2H 9JQ, United Kingdom
Global-Asset.Ltd | LEGIT STOCK, FOREX, NFT, BINARY & CRYPTO INVESTMENT PLATFORM
LEGIT STOCK, FOREX, BINARY & CRYPTO INVESTMENT PLATFORM
Welcome To Global-Asset.Ltd
A Firm for Stock & Crypto Currency Investment solution
Grow Your Financial Stability
Reliable and Secured
Trade in the world’s trusted financial markets, with a simple and user friendly online platform.You predict currency or stock rates and earn up to 90% from deal's amount.
Create Account
Login To Account
Create An Account
Fund Account
Trade and Earn
Get Started Now...
Discover thousands of trading and investment opportunities
Not only do we provide our traders with excellent trading instruments, but we also
support them with the best tools: volatility alerts, market updates, stock screeners, calendars and newsletters.
Countries
9704000
+
Satisfaction
9704000
%
Total Investment
9704000
+
Total Withdrawal
9704000
+
About us
Global-Asset.Ltd is fully automated trading platform that gives you full control of your investment,
and allows you to withdraw your capital and profit at anytime.with our team of highly motivated professionals
who are very passionate about trading on the world’s financial market, and are keen on empowering others on the
same bailiwick.We offer the best rate of profit on your initial capital investment weekly and monthly.
Daily Profits reflect on your Global-Asset.Ltd account.
Office Info:
The latest news and resources contact straight legal Point.
England Wales, 71-75 Shelton St, WC2H 9JQ, United Kingdom
Email: Support@global-asset.ltd
Read More
CURRENCY CONVERSION
Get in touch with the live Currency Price conversion
Security Comes First
Your security and trust are important to us. We're committed to protecting your account with the highest standards of security available..
We Are Trusted
Over $1.8B and counting - More than 20k people trust over $5.2 billion with Global-Asset.Ltd companies.
Powerful backing
Powerful backing - Global-Asset.Ltd is backed by $265M in investment from some of the world's largest financial institutions.
Strong Encryption
Everything is encrypted - We use state-of-the-art data encryption when handling your financial information.
Access the financial markets all in one place
Are you a retail trader, money manager or an institutional investor? No worries – we have you covered with all the tools for successful Binary Options trading.
The Easiest Deposits & Withdrawals In The Market
Our services
Management Team
We have the world's best and the most experienced and professional management team to rely on.
Technology benefit
We provide investors with a unique array of features running on a solid technological base we have developed
Instant effect
All operations within our system, including financial transactions and statistical reporting, occur in real time
Easy and convenient
You invest your money, and we take care of the rest, providing you with convenient, user-friendly tools for controlling your funds
100% Profit Guarantee
With our expertise we guarantee you the best profits in the market. No one can beat us. With us you will enjoy the safest and the best profit rates.
Customer support
Our round-the-clock E-mail, Telegram and Facebook support team will respond to you at any time, any day. Even on weekends and holidays!
Solid Platform for investment
Our state-of-the-art trading platform is suitable for traders of any experience level.
First-time traders will find it easy to master, while experienced traders will delight
in the wide variety of charts, tools, and deluxe features that it provides.
Our agents are
available and always ready to help you on chat 24/7. You can also contact us via email.
You will receive earnings every 24 hours on all days of the year. Your deposit is working
all the time, excluding weekends.
OUR AVAILABLE INVESTMENT PLANS
Purchase Now....
Deluxe
Signal Pro
Signal Analysis
min. Investment: $100
Max. Investment: $2000
2.5% After 7 Days
24/7 Customer Care
Get Started
Premium
Signal Pro
Signal Analysis
min. Investment: 2000
Max. Investment: $10,000
5% After 7 Days
24/7 Customer Care
Get Started
Standard
Signal Pro
Signal Analysis
min. Investment: $10,000
Max. Investment: $Unlimited
10% Daily Continously
24/7 Customer Care
Get Started
Referral Program
We are Giving You 5% In Every Referrer Commision
You should choose us
See the benefits you can get by working with our experts
Pro Team
With a world class team, we guarantee the best pips and strategy and ensure all our innovations are veteran controlled.
Minimal Risk
With the expertise and experience of our risk management team as well as our automated softwares, we guarantee the minimal risk ever
No Limits!
Our packages happen to be for all Wallet Sizes. Also, all our Clients happen to have $ 5 bitcoin equivalence Bonus on Referrals.
OUR LIVE STATISTICS
Last 5 Deposit
Username
Payment Method
Amount
Last 5 Withdrawal
Username
Payment Method
Amount
MARKET CHART
What our clients think
Testimonials
I got my investment right on time will be investing more next time
Steven Harry
Client
You cannot choose a better platform than the services rendered by Global-Asset.Ltd Limited
Jerry Rob
Client
$14,000 withdraw successful nice trading in this platform
Mason Smith
Client
When you talk about trade comparison with great results and reputation,
they remain the best.
Kelvin Stones
Client
Forex trading remains the best and trading with Global-Asset.Ltd has  been easy and wonderful for me.
Jannet Murphy
Client
Forex (USD/GBP)
Trade foreign currencies on the largest and most liquid market in the world.
128 Stocks (CFD) / NFT
Trade CFDs on shares of the best-performing companies listed on the NYSE and NASDAQ and NFT'S.
Crypto/Binary
Trade the hottest cryptocurrencies of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin and others Binary Option trades.
Top Awards
Our Most Iconic Awards
Profit-base.com is fully automated trading platform that gives you full control of your investment, and allows you to withdraw your capital and profit at anytime.
-----------
Guaranted protection. When we say that you are secured we really mean it. We have built one of the world most sophisticated security system that have never been compromised. Members records are kept confidential from third parties.
Contact Us
support@Global-Asset.Ltd
Whatsapp
COMING SOON
24/7 customer support and live chat
Copyright© 2024 Paychexmax
Contact us | Privacy policy