A.I.T.E FX – A.I Trading Engine
A.I.T.E FX
How Copy Trading Works
Get Started
Portfolio
Live Result
Exclusive Partner
Contact Us
The ultimate A.I Copy trading provider for Forex & GOLD
Make Profit Automatically From The Forex & Gold Markets By Copying Every Trade From The World's #1 Algorithmic Trading Bot
Backed By Live Trading Results
LIVE RESULTS
GET STARTED
Our Technology
Powered By A.I Trading Engine  (A.I.T.E)
Hi!
I AM A.I.T.E
I AM A.I.T.E
A.I Auto-Trading
Automatically Monitor, Trigger & Close Trades For You With Corresponding Market Movements
Automated Take Profit & Stoploss
A.I.T.E Will Analyse The Fast-Changing Markets For Suitable Pricing To Take-Profit & Necessary Stop-Losses
8 Strategies In 1 Trading Engine
Integrated With 8 Trading Strategies To Transform A.I.T.E Into The Ultimate Trading Engine For Maximising Potential Returns
Forex & Gold Trading
A.I.T.E Is Programmed To Trade Both The Forex & Gold Markets With High Winning Rate Of More Than 70%-90%
24/5 Live Data Analysis
Our A.I.T.E Analyses The Market 24 Hours  And Manage Trades For You Even While You Sleep Or On Vacation.
Proper Risk Management
Market News Impact Filter & Portfolio Stoploss Ensures Proper Risk Management According To The Portfolio's Risk  Percentage
How Copy Trading Works
Mirror All Trades Trigger By A.I.T.E Automatically
A.I.T.E Scans The Market For Trading Opportunities
A.I.T.E Execute & Monitor Your Trades For 24/5
A.I.T.E Close The Trades & Take-Profit Automatically
Copy Trading Features
The #1 A.I Copy-Trading Provider
Copy All A.I.T.E Trades
AutoscaleCopy exactly the same trading volume as the Master's volume based on your capital ratio.
Full ControlGain Full Control Over Your Trading Account Even When Following A.I.T.E
70/30 Profits SplitWe Only Split When There Is Profits Hence It Is A Win-Win Situation For Everyone.
Risk ManagementAuto-Unsubscribe when your account hit certain specified floating loss or total loss.
Set Min/Max LotsOnly copy trades that are above/below a specified minimum/maximum lots
Directional TradingChoose to copy both buy and sell trades or either one direction.
AutoscaleCopy exactly the same trading volume as the Master's volume based on your capital ratio.
Full ControlGain Full Control Over Your Trading Account Even When Following A.I.T.E
70/30 Profits SplitWe Only Split When There Is Profits Hence It Is A Win-Win Situation For Everyone.
Copy All A.I.T.E Trades
Risk ManagementAuto-Unsubscribe when your account hit certain specified floating loss or total loss.
Set Min/Max LotsOnly copy trades that are above/below a specified minimum/maximum lots
Directional TradingChoose to copy both buy and sell trades or either one direction.
Why Choose Us
#1 A.I Copy-Trading System In Asia
Proven & Verified Track Records
100% Rule-Based Without Emotions
100% Automated Trading
Highly Profitable Up To 50% /Mth
Proper Risk Management
100% Beginner Friendly
About FPMarkets
Why We Partnered With FPMarkets For Copy-Trading?
Multi-Regulated Brokerage Firm
Multi-Regulated Brokerage Firm
FP Markets must adhere to some of the most stringent international regulations of the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC), the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC), and the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).
Top 10 Broker Ranked By WikiFX
Top 10 Broker Ranked By WikiFX
FPMarkets is currently ranked on WikiFX as the Top 7 Brokers due to it's good Reviews & Ratings
Low Spread & Fast Execution
Low Spread & Fast Execution
Trade on consistently low spreads from 0.0 pips with fast execution from a server facility. Top-tier liquidity and market leading pricing, 24/5 & No dealing desk with no requotes, ever.
Funds Safety
Funds Safety
FP Markets Segregate Client Funds Into Multiple Banks & Liquidity Providers. This ensure funds safety and diversification of funds risk.
Fast Deposit & Withdrawals
Fast Deposit & Withdrawals
Deposits & Withdrawals can be processed into trading account within minutes except for wire transfer. For wire transfer, it is typically within 2 business days.
Various Deposit Methods
Various Deposit Methods
Visa/MasterCard, Bank Transfer, Neteller, Skrill, Paytrust, STICPay, FasaPay, VirtualPay, Rupee Payment, Rapyd, Perfect Money, Pagsmile, Crypto (ADA, BCH, BTC, DASH. ETH, LTC, PAX, XRP, TUSD, USDC (ERC20), USDT (ERC20), USDT (TRC20), ZEC), DragonPay Rapid Transfer, XPay, Pay Retailers, GooglePay, ApplePay and even Broker to Broker payment solutions.
Advanced Copy-Trading System
Advanced Copy-Trading System
Each Copier Will Have Their Own MetaTrader Trading Account Unlike Other Brokers That Uses A Third Party App To Mirror Trades. This Ensures That Users Will Have Full Control Over Their Trading Account Even While Coping Trades From The Master Trader/Signal Provider
Reliable Company
Reliable Company
FPMarkets Has Been Operating As A Regulated Forex Broker Since 2007 Which Has More Than 15 Years Of Credibility. It Is Also Ranked As The Top 6 Brokers In Wikifx And Has More Than 3000 5 Star Reviews On Trustpilot.
Award Winning Broker
Award Winning Broker
With More Than 40 Global Industry Awards Awarded By Top Publication Firms & The Sponsors For English Premier League. There Is No Doubt That FPMarkets Is A Trustworthy Broker Globally.
Let's Get Started
Step 1
Register For Broker
Sign Up A Trading Account With FPMarkets Using Your Friends’ Referral Link.Complete The Necessary Application To Verify Your Trading Account.
Step 2
Fund Your Account
After Signing Up With The Broker, Deposit Funds Via Credit/Debit Card, Bank Transfer, Crypto.
Step 3
Copy A.I.T.E Trades
Finally, Grab The Master Trader Link From Your Friends And Choose Your Preferred Portfolio & Copy All OF A.I.T.E Trades
Choose A Portfolio
Multiple portfolios with different returns and risk profile to suit the different needs of different users and allow diversification to protect your portfolio
A.I.T.E FX1
Rocket Mode
Min. Deposit $2,000
StopLoss 100%
Estimated Average 80% Return/mth
A.I.T.E FX2
Rabbit Mode
Min. Deposit $2,000
StopLoss 50%
Estimated Average 40% Return/mth
A.I.T.E FX3
Turtle Mode
Min. Deposit $3,000
StopLoss 30%
Estimated Average 20% Return/mth
Have Any Question?
A.I.T.E Bot
CopyTrading
Portfolio
FXBrokers
General
I have no experience in trading and no time to monitor. How does that work for me?
Social-Trading is designed such that you will be able to effortlessly profit from the market, 24/5 as long as it is a trading day.
How do you profit from providing this service?
There will be 2 revenue source for us from the brokerage that you use. The first would be the trading rebates generated from trading activity based on the spread of each trades. The second revenue is the commissions charged when you have generated profits from your trading account. Hence it is a Win-Win situation for everyone.
How do you ensure that your strategy is profitable?
As per all trading, trading entails a high level of risk, and is thus not suitable for everyone. However, we do due diligence to ensure that we partake strategies with high win rates.
What does A.I.T.E Bot stands for?
That would be Artificial Intelligence Trading Engine! It also represents our desire to create high win rate trading robots through technology.
How does trading works?
We engage a various means of buying and selling commodities and forex multiple times a day, to take the highest probability of making a eventual profit.
How does copy-trading works?
With this feature from trusted brokers, they will be able to automatically copy our trades on the commodities/pair we are trading, in the same ratio, and as closely as possible.
Who is copy-trading suitable for?
Copy-trading is suitable for both beginner and expert traders whom want to spend little time monitoring the markets, and are keen to diversify their portfolio of funds.
Copy-Trading Features
For more detailed copy trading features, please refer to the setup guide page.
Do you have track records of your trading history?
Yes! You may refer to our ‘myfxbook’ links above to check our our live and verified track records.
Why do you have so many portfolios available?
This is because we provide a wide range of stratgies suitable for both the low risk and agrresive type investor.
How should I choose my first portfolio?
For beginner traders, you may consider portfolios that are of a lower risk nature, which you will be able to view above.
Can I invest in multiple portfolios?
Yes! Of course you can, and it is advisable to create multiple trading accounts to trade a wider variety of products and partake different risk levels.
Will I be able to use other brokers that I trust?
Unfortunately, no. However the preferred brokers are widely considered to have a high level of reputation, credibility score, and low spreads. For example, FPMArkets has been around the markets since 15 years ago and ranked TOP 10 in Wikifx.
Is FP Markets regulated?
FP Markets remains regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) and the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC).
Is FP Markets reliable?
FP Markets is operational since 2005. It maintains an elevated level of transparency and has established itself as a reliable broker.
What are the FP Markets' withdrawal options?
FP Markets maintains 21 withdrawal options, including bank wires, credit/debit cards, Neteller, Skrill, Fastpay, Google Pay, Apple Pay, and more!
Is there any risk to lose more than my capital?
No, the maximum you will lose is 100% of your invested capital.
I have no experience in trading and no time to monitor. How does that work for me?
Social-Trading is designed such that you will be able to effortlessly profit from the market, 24/5 as long as it is a trading day.
How may I contact your support for enquiries?
You may link up with us anytime at https://t.me/aitefx , our support team will reply asap within 1 working day.
How do I get started on trading with you?
You will have to get 2 exclusive links from your referral or friends. The first link would be to sign up as a brokerage trading account with FPMarkets, another link is to join the Signal Provider. Note that these two links are exclusive from person to person.
Can I withdraw my capital anytime?
Yes & No. If there is no trading activity or no more floating trades left, you may want to withdraw your full capital. If there are floating trades, try to avoid withdrawals as it will affect the margin of the trades.
Can I refer friends & make more money?
Yes you can, as our agents get to make an extra $5k-20k Usd/Mth, we will need to qualify you first before you can start referring to avoid misrepresentation and equip you with the proper knowledge and tools.
AITE FX
Contact Us
Telegram Us
t.me/aitefx
Email Support
support@aitefx.com
Your Name
Your Phone
Email
Message
Send Message
Disclaimer: Trading in foreign exchange (“Forex”) on margins entails high risk and is not suitable for all investors. Past performance is not an indication of future results. In this case, as well, the high degree of leverage can act both against you and for you. Before you decide to invest in foreign exchange, you should carefully assess your investment objectives, experience, financial possibilities, and willingness to take risks. There is a possibility that you will lose your initial investment partially or completely. Therefore, you should not invest any funds that you cannot afford to completely lose in a worst-case scenario. You should also be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and contact an independent financial advisor in case of doubt.Leverage enables traders, using a relatively small amount of money, to take a position that is many times the initial investment. This leverage effect can work both in your favor and to your detriment. The Forex market opens up the possibility to utilize this leverage effect to a high degree; at the same time, however, it also opens up the risk of experiencing high losses. Please trade with caution when you use leverage in trading or investing.