IEXS | Partnership | Introduce Broker
Chat with us, powered by LiveChat
Please fill in the correct email address
Confirm
English
简体中文
繁體中文
IEXS Partner ProgramPartner with multi-award winning financial broker
IEXS Partner Program aims to recruit sales teams to jointly expand the market and promote the application of
industry-leading level financial technology and trading services owned by the IEXS to achieve mutual benefits.
Register Now
Exclusive Partner Support and Benefits
IEXS is committed to serving our clients by putting our clients first, understanding their needs and integrating
cutting-edge solutions into our trading products and services to provide an industry-leading trading experience
and technical support to clients in the global financial markets.
Multi-tier commission system
IEXS offers a competitive and tailor-made rebate scheme, and if your clients become partners, you will earn
more commissions
Unlimited Commissions
Your monthly commission will be increased for every trade your clients make, with no cap on client
commissions or total commissions, which can be withdrawn at any time
Professional marketing materials and tools
IEXS provides partners with design and creative material support; professional and detailed promotional
materials; and comprehensive trade analysis tools for the industry
Stable and convenient withdrawals and deposits
IEXS is committed to providing a safe, fast and efficient withdrawal experience; multiple access channels,
large discounts and fast review of withdrawals and deposits
Partner Business and Industry Training
IEXS provides partners with valuable training to help them master the keypoints, programs and competitive
advantages that drive their business forward, with the support and guidance to match.
Support Program
IEXS provides over a million dollars of support to partner programs to enhance referral systems and
operations to keep them up and running.
IEXS Advantage
Capital security
Trading advantages
Trading Services
Professional team
Capital security
●
Accept regulation by FCA, BVIFSC, VFSC, FINTRAC
regulators.
●
Annual $500,000 trading account liability
insurance.
●
Professional EPC legal assistance program
●
Separate management of client funds accounts
and company operating accounts
Trading advantages
●
Millisecond order execution with as low as 0
spreads
●
Leverage of up to 800:1 for commodities trading
●
Best entry prices from top liquidity providers
●
Over 100 of the world\'s most popular
investment commodities
Trading Services
●
Enjoy up to 5% compounded annualized return on
your balance
●
Negative balance protection from a professional
risk management system
●
Shared trading system, follow the professionals
to gain profit
●
Easy access to profits with X-PAMM\'s own
allocation management system
Professional team
●
Instant payments and pick up anytime for Salary
●
Offer market analysis report and case study for
sales
●
Provide professional financial training, a day
in the financial sector
●
24/7 customer service, answer your questions
online
IEXS offers popular financial trading products for the global financial markets; including over 100 products
such as currency pairs, commodities, precious metals, indices, stocks and cryptocurrencies.
Forex
Commodities
Metals
Index
Stock
Digital currency
Register Now
Honors and Awards
2019Fastest Growing Broker Europe
2019Best Crypto Broker Asia
2020Best Forex Fintech Broker
Partner Business Boosting Activities
Ongoing event
VIP Membership System
New customers can join the IEXS VIP membership system simply after registration
and account open. Enjoy exclusive VIP privileges.Top 10 member benefits,The pinnacia trading
experience,Redeem cash for limousines
Highest Profits Event
Get a cash bonus on your first deposit
Get a chance to win 100% on your first deposit every day! Cash rewards can be
withdrawn at any time.Earn lucky draw opportunities up to 13 times a day through daily deposits.The
more amounts you deposit, the more chances you get to win.Cash rewards can be withdrawn at any time
and benefits would be doubled.
Most Popular Events
Trading bonus points for luxury gifts
IEXS provides a one-stop luxury service to its customers. Customers can earn
points through trading and participating in events and redeem them for luxury products at the IEXS
Customer Centre.Unlimited cash prizes, coveted Porsche cars and the latest smart electronics.
The website is owned and operated by IEXS LLC of IEXS Group Ltd, which include: IEXS
The website is owned and operated by IEXS LLC. IEXS LLC – with registered address Euro House, Richmond Hill Road,
P.O. Box 2897, Kingstown, Saint Vincent & the Grenadines with the registration number 282 LLC 2020. IEXS LLC – with
business address at 3 Beeston Place, London, UK, SW1W 0JJ.
Legal: IEXS LLC is incorporated in St. Vincent & the Grenadines as a Limited Liability Company with the registration
number 282 LLC 2020. The objects of the Company are all subject matters not forbidden by Limited Liability Companies
Act, Chapter 151 of the Revised Law of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,2009, in particular but not exclusively all
commercial, financial, lending, borrowing, trading, service activities and the participation in other enterprises as
well as to provide brokerage, training and managed account services in currencies, commodities, indexes, CFDs and
leveraged financial instruments. IEXS LLC does not provide services to residents of certain jurisdictions, including
the United States, Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Iraq, Syria, Taiwan. The information on this website is not
intended to be sent to or used by persons in countries or jurisdictions where the publication or use of the
information would be contrary to local laws and regulations. English is the primary language used in our services and
is the legally binding language in all our contractual documents.
Disclaimer: The content of this page is for information purposes only and it is not intended as a recommendation or
advice. Any indication of past performance or simulated past performance included in advertisements published by IEXS
is not a reliable indicator of future results. The customer carries the sole responsibility for all the businesses or
investments that are carried out at IEXS.
High Risk Investment Warning: CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly due to
leverage. All of retail investor accounts lose money when trading CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether
you understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money. For more
information please refer to IEXS’s Risk Disclosure.
2022 © IEXS LLC - All right reserved