IX TRADERS LIMITED
IXTRADERS
Login
Register
Login
Register
About Us
FAQ
Contact Us
Policy
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Automated Trading, Fully Built By  IX Traders.
IX Traders.Fully Built By AI.
IX Traders AI - the AI created trading bot that never misses. Join and earn today!
Get Started
Login Account
IX Traders founded since 2012 has been an offline stocks trading company availbale. As we kept growing we finally created the IX Traders platform to bring our services online and reach out globally. IX Traders platform was launched in January 4th, 2018, all trades placed during every hour. Since going live, the IX Traders AI has not closed a day with a negative profit from total sales. Past results not indicative of future performance. All trading involves risk. Only invest as much as you are willing to lose.
Principles
The human mind and artificial intelligence successful union
Setting ambitious goals, we are guided by experience, the latest technology and common sense. Aware of all the new times challenges and risks, we look confidently to the future, and it is DeFi.
The 10 principles of the IX Traders Team
We work for the community
Being business-oriented, we remember that we work for people
We see the value in any market trend
We never panic, turning any trend into a profit
We respect the laws of the market
We respect the financial market and work with care
We make decentralized systems available to everyone
Each cent in the wallet must bring additional income
We are open for collaboration
We are always open for mutually beneficial cooperation
We are human creative intelligence and AI, an alliance
Responsible decision-making is based on data-driven thinking
We use Big-Data to make the world a better place
Being professionals already, we continue to learn from every case
We boldly take on any challenge
We face the boldest challenge head-on and respond quickly to changes.
We respect the fair combat rules in competition
Business is like a war, and we fight like brave soldiers, respecting the fair combat rules
To be smart and friendly
We are open to new knowledge and our hearts are open to new friends
IX Traders
About IX Traders Limited
We are professionals, an ambitious teaming the artificial intelligence technology and operations in the cryptocurrency market field.
IX Traders - Smart Farming technology embodies the human and artificial intelligence harmony, designed to help achieve maximum benefits for our clients.
Profitability
Secure and fast transactions
Risk Management
Comfortable environment
Trading Packages
Our proprietary trading bot has been delivering consistent and outstanding results since its launch. Below displayed is the latest performance data from the past five days to see for yourself the potential of our cutting-edge technology and its ability to deliver real results.
Full trading history with all trades for each day since January 4th, 2018 can be found in the user dashboard, under “Trades” section. Registration needed to access.
Basic plan - 30 days Trade
10% Profit Daily
$40 - $1,000
Regular Plan - 30 days Trade
20% Profit Daily
$1,000 - $5,000
Advance Plan - 30 days Trade
30% Profit Daily
$5,000 - $10,000
Premium Plan - 25 days Trade
50% Profit Daily
$10,000 - $30,000
VIP Plan - 20 days Trade
75% Profit Daily
$30,000 - Unlimited
Community
A community for forward-thinking people
At IX Traders, the team's intelligence is complemented by the developments in Big Data, so farming in the community generates substantial passive income for our partners. Focused on the main goal, we share the progress and fairness a new world values.
Read more
Technologies
Advanced technologies for the money of the future
Our team the main tasks to work effectively using the latest software solutions and machine technologies to multiply the pool participants, capita learning on the free and decentralized digital money market.
Read more
4 Steps for you
Step 1
Join The Platform
Create an account on the trading platform and provide any necessary verification information to gain access to the trading bot.
Step 2
Choose a Bot
Provide funds or cryptocurrency for the bot to use for trading. The Bot will use these funds to make trades on your behalf.
Step 3
Earn daily
The bot will use staked funds to make trades and earn a profit, which will be distributed to you on a daily basis. Also earn a beginner's referral commission of 7% on every deposit from your referral and a Master's referral commission of 20% when yiu invite up to 4 active traders.
Step 4
Track Everything
Monitor the bot's trades and keep track of performance with trading reports every single day.
Features
Farming
Is a relatively new, but rapidly developing trading tool that we use to increase our profits.
Read more
Artificial Intelligence
Capabilities help humans in many areas, including routine and complex calculations in predicting exchange rate fluctuations.
Read more
Choice opportunities
IX Traders already offers more than 25 cryptocurrencies and exchanges dozens, a choice.
Read more
Blockchain and DeFi
For more than 10 years, blockchain has been the main technological responses one to humanity's need for a more global, free and just world.
Read more
Liquidity Pool
This is participants tokens accumulator in a kind with the same currency pairs.
Read more
Cryptocurrency pairs
Provide an opportunity to earn on the rate relative fluctuations, in short time intervals on various trading platforms, and reinvestment mechanisms help to multiply the earned.
Read more
A mining comparison and farming capabilities
Mining involves buying or renting expensive equipment (computing power), paying enormous electricity bills, and other related expenses
Read more
Our benefit
Profitability
No traditional financial institution has the decentralized system's capability. In blockchain, everyone is his own banker. 50% per annum is not an extraordinary profit for cryptocurrency holders. You can always evaluate the farming profitability prospects based on annual percentage rate (APR) and annual percentage yield (APY) data, and identify reinvestment strategies to reap more benefits.
Our benefit
Secure and fast transactions
In addition to generating passive income, the platform allows for secure and anonymous transactions. You'll never encounter account blocking, service denial, and other inconveniences that bankers and authorities create for ordinary people. IX Traders never sleeps, and the only obstacle to your asset's free disposal may be the access lack to the Internet.
Our benefit
Risk Management
Nowadays, one can hardly find a financial instrument or asset that is absolutely guaranteed against market shocks. However, a currency pair is more reliable protection against risks, compared to the investment in a single coin.
Our team prioritizes risk management. For example, thanks to quantum computing methods, investing $100 in BTC--ETH pair is equivalent to investing $100 in BTC and $100 in ETH, respectively.
Artificial intelligence helps optimize profits and minimize losses, when there is a downtrend for the currency pair's components, one.
Another risk is attackers encroaching on client's e-wallets. Protection from hackers is our concern. The IX Traders platform has been independently audited and the security specialists expertise the highest level guarantees smart contracts protection to an unprecedented level. Your transaction data is encrypted, and only you can access your resource's management.
Our benefit
Comfortable environment
Specialists with high international prestige have made every effort to make our services as clear and user-friendly as possible, and the interface itself is user-friendly as well. Working in our community is easy and comfortable. People starting their way in the earning on digital financial instruments field can get honest information in an accessible form, and professional traders will pay tribute to our resource progressive functionality.
Features
Farming
Farming is a relatively new, but rapidly developing trading tool that we use to increase our profits. What's the first thing that comes to mind when we hear «cryptocurrency»? Volatility—most at least somewhat sophisticated people will answer, and it is farming that gives us the opportunity to use the digital coins rate volatility to make money.
Features
Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence capabilities help humans in many areas, including routine and complex calculations in predicting exchange rate fluctuations. Even the most perfect and unordinary human mind is not able to take into account variables thousands in a split second and give the market behaviour an adequate forecast. That is why there is no antagonism in the combination of human possibilities and the latest computing technologies—only productivity increase and decision quality.
Features
Choice opportunities
IX Traders already offers more than 25 cryptocurrencies and exchanges dozens, a choice. Friendly interface, huge computing and network resources, provide the widest opportunities for traders. However, not stopping at the achievements, we are constantly developing the resource, making it even more functional and comfortable for users.
Features
Blockchain and DeFi
For more than 10 years, blockchain has been the main technological responses one to humanity's need for a more global, free and just world. A world without imposed restrictions or invented borders, in which opportunities are equal for everyone, residence country regardless or identity.
The decentralised financial instruments’ enormous opportunities and potential make them already a definite alternative to the traditional banking sector and promise the traditional financial technologies replacement with systems based on open source protocols.
Features
Liquidity Pool
This is participants tokens accumulator in a kind with the same currency pairs. The liquidity pool makes it possible for its participants each to receive passive income from farming, according to the financial contribution.
If participant «X» contributed $1000, and participant «Y» – $500, then the farmed cryptocurrency will be distributed in the proportion 66/33%, respectively. The exchange gives you the opportunity to buy and sell tokens within the pool due to the token liquidity. The higher the demand for the token is, the more profitable you can sell the digital coins.
Features
Cryptocurrency pairs
Cryptocurrency pairs provide an opportunity to earn on the rate relative fluctuations, in short time intervals on various trading platforms, and reinvestment mechanisms help to multiply the earned. Working with pairs, in certain circumstances, is less risky compared to investments and operations with a single coin.
Features
A mining comparison and farming capabilities
Mining involves buying or renting expensive equipment (computing power), paying enormous electricity bills, and other related expenses. Due to the blockchain algorithms’ increasing complexity, mining major cryptocurrencies requires only a six-figure investment in equipment.
Farming does not cost that much, and your invested money in tokens starts working right away. The secondary market liquidity for mining equipment can be very difficult to obtain, while the token can be sold at any point in time.
IX Traders
Make money on cryptocurrency pairs
For starting earn money you need to
1
Register your account
2
Start trading
Sign in
Create free account
A community for forward-thinking people.
To the force dictates, bureaucratic press, vertical integration and numerous formalities, we oppose fair competition, intelligence, democratic resources and horizontal connections.
The blockchain platforms’ growing capitalization worries retrograde officials. However, people are increasingly embracing the digital money world, rejecting the officials petty dictate, and preferring the capital free movement between different countries to ordinary citizens to artificial barriers.
We have made it our mission not only to work efficiently and increase our community members, but also to make blockchain as accessible as possible by lowering the «starting point» and providing our users with honest information.
Join our community from anywhere in the world and start making money with us! Professionals and beginners alike will appreciate the working with the IX Traders platform benefits.
Advanced technologies for the money of the future.
Big Data technologies are needed to effectively predict a cryptocurrency pair behaviour, make transactions on exchanges a dozen sand take into account the data vast amounting their dynamic behaviour.
In order to make farming easier and more accessible, we used new innovative technologies such as—neural network, natural language processing, deep learning and fuzzy logic.
In practice, the team creativity and professionalism, combined with artificial intelligence, allows us to offer you today:
access to more than 25 cryptocurrencies;
drawing up any complexity, a pool;
work with exchanges any number (from two to several dozens);
expect 100% successful transactions.
We have already managed to achieve the best interaction between networks, increased by times the bet's liquidity and stimulation, so we are ready to offer low commissions for our new friends.
We are constantly evolving and offering only the best and proven solutions.
Automate Your Trading
Start automating your trading today with our ultramodern, fully AI built day trading bot - no experience necessary!
Get Started
Log in
About Us
FAQs
Terms
Powered by Smartsupp