ALPHALIVEMARKET - Home
Home
Plan
About
Blog
Contact
English
Invest for your Future in Stable Platform and Earn with Passion!
Invest in an Industry Leader, a Professional, and Reliable Company. We provide you with the most necessary features that will make your earning experience better with our mining services.
SIGN UP NOW
About Us
An international financial organization aimed at generating splendid ROI, Watch how your capital grow continuously on the cryptocurrency investment,  You can also get free and verified crypto airdrops. Have the chance to get the latest tokens with a focus on DeFi airdrops and NFT, exclusively on alphalivemarkets, Performed by qualified professional.
Our goal is to provide our investors with a reliable source of high income, while minimizing any possible risks and offering a high-quality service, allowing us to automate and simplify the relations between the investors and the trustees. We work towards increasing your profit margin by profitable investment. We look forward to you being part of our community as we work together as Investor to bring your payout to reality.
Invest now
Investment Plans
To make a solid investment, you have to know where you are investing. Find a plan which is best for you.
Diamond
Return 1550%
Every Day
For   8 Day
Total   12400%
+ Capital
$10000  - $99999
Invest Now
Gold
Return 950USD
Every Day
For   8 Day
Total   7600USD
+ Capital
$5000  - $9999
Invest Now
Silver
Return 465%
Every Day
For   8 Day
Total   3720%
+ Capital
$1000  - $4999
Invest Now
Bronze
Return 165%
Every Hour
For   28 Hour
Total   4620%
+ Capital
$500  - $999
Invest Now
Starter Plan
Return 45%
Every Hour
For   35 Hour
Total   1575%
+ Capital
$100  - $499
Invest Now
Why Choose Us
Our goal is to provide our investors with a reliable source of high income, while minimizing any possible risks and offering a high-quality service.
Legal Company
Our company conducts absolutely legal activities in the legal field. We are certified to operate investment business, we are legal and safe.
High reliability
We are trusted by a huge number of people. We are working hard constantly to improve the level of our security system and minimize possible risks.
Anonymity
Anonymity and using cryptocurrency as a payment instrument. In the era of electronic money – this is one of the most convenient ways of cooperation.
Quick Withdrawal
Our all retreats are treated spontaneously once requested. There are high maximum limits. The minimum withdrawal amount is only $10 .
Referral Program
We are offering a certain level of referral income through our referral program. you can increase your income by simply refer a few people.
24/7 Support
We provide 24/7 customer support through e-mail and telegram. Our support representatives are periodically available to elucidate any difficulty.
Dedicated Server
We are using a dedicated server for the website which allows us exclusive use of the resources of the entire server.
SSL Secured
Comodo Essential-SSL Security encryption confirms that the presented content is genuine and legitimate.
DDOS Protection
We are using one of the most experienced, professional, and trusted DDoS Protection and mitigation provider.
2FA Option
Users can now add extra security to their account by enabling Two Factor Authorization on their account using Google Authenticator or Authy!
Profit Calculator
You must know the calculation before investing in any plan, so you never make mistakes. Check the calculation and you will get as our calculator says.
Choose Plan
Diamond
Gold
Silver
Bronze
Starter Plan
Invest Amount
Profit Amount
How ALPHALIVEMARKET Works
Get involved in our tremendous platform and Invest. We will utilize your money and give you profit in your wallet automatically.
1
Register With Us
2
Make Deposit
3
Invest To Plan
4
Get Profit
5
Withdraw Funds
Get Started Today With Us
This is a Revolutionary Money Making Platform! Invest for Future in Stable Platform and Make Fast Money. Not only we guarantee the fastest and the most exciting returns on your investments, but we also guarantee the security of your investment.
Join Us Now!
Frequently Asked Questions
We answer some of your Frequently Asked Questions regarding our platform. If you have a query that is not answered here, Please contact us.
When can I deposit/withdraw from my Investment account?
Deposit and withdrawal are available for at any time. Be sure, that your funds are not used in any ongoing trade before the withdrawal. The available amount is shown in your dashboard on the main page of Investing platform.
Deposit and withdrawal are available for at any time. Be sure, that your funds are not used in any ongoing trade before the withdrawal. The available amount is shown in your dashboard on the main page of Investing platform.
How do I check my account balance?
You can see this anytime on your accounts dashboard.  You can see this anytime on your accounts dashboard.
I forgot my password, what should I do?
Visit the password reset page, type in your email address and click the `Reset` button.
Visit the password reset page, type in your email address and click the `Reset` button.
How will I know that the withdrawal has been successful?
You will get an automatic notification once we send the funds and you can always check your transactions or account balance. Your chosen payment system dictates how long it will take for the funds to reach you.
You will get an automatic notification once we send the funds and you can always check your transactions or account balance. Your chosen payment system dictates how long it will take for the funds to reach you.
How much can I withdraw?
You can withdraw the full amount of your account balance minus the funds that are used currently for supporting opened positions.
You can withdraw the full amount of your account balance minus the funds that are used currently for supporting opened positions.
Earn DeFi crypto rewards with Alphalivemarket. We offer numerous opportunities for yield farmers and users who want to earn crypto rewards. 📊
Put your crypto to work and earn rewards. ...
This project is aiming to become the biggest crypto earning guild of its kind. 📈
An ecosystem of crypto mining software’s for generating profit amounts of coins per second.
Our Latest News
You will be updated about our system and the world market in this area. Keep checking our Latest News to be in touch.
Economic Secretary Wants UK to Be ‘Country of Choice’ for Crypto Space
The UK wants to "become the country of choice for those looking to create, innovate and build in the crypto space," according to Economic Secretary to the Treasury Richard Fuller.S...
Read More
Fintech Specialists Predict Ethereum Price Hitting $6,500 This Year Before Rising to $26,338 by 2030
A panel of fintech specialists has predicted that the price of ethereum will reach $6,500 by year-end. It will then rise to $10,810 by 2025 before more than doubling to $26,338 by...
Read More
Canadian Lawmaker Introduces Bill to Encourage Crypto Sector Growth
A bill has been introduced in Canada to encourage the growth of the crypto sector. “Canada should be attracting billions of dollars in investment in the fast growing crypto asset i...
Read More
Subscribe Our Newsletter
At first sign in your account
×
At first sign in your account
Privacy and Policy
Terms of use
Email us: support@user.alphalivemarket.com
© 2025 ALPHALIVEMARKET. All rights reserved
Powered by Smartsupp