investments-rates.com
info@investments-rate.com
+990-8421-1703
Home
About
Our Plans
How to
FAQ
Contact
Login
Signup
Search
Most Trusted Company For Your Business
You can earn stable high interest by investing our plans. The minimum investment is only $1000. For now, we have 4 great investment plans, Join and enjoy your high interest now!
Register Here
Login Here
Your Success Is Our Ultimate Duty
The most powerful platform for profitable investment easily , honestly and professional. Start with $1000, feel free to join us and earn real high profit today!
Register Here
Login Here
No.1 Investment Company With Experience
If you want to join us to consistently earn over a long time period all you need is just to register on our website and make a deposit with a minimum restriction of only $1000. Both the deposits and withdrawals are instant.
Register Here
Login Here
We Offer High Profitability
About Us
We Are A Trusted Company With 10+ Years Of Experience
Investments-Rate is an innovative and practical cryptocurrency investment platform online, which welcomes all members worldwide. We act solely as a facilitator between you and the Enterprise. We are committed to putting our clients at the heart of our business by delivering high-quality investment services. Moreover, we respect our customers, cherish their confidence and help to achieve excellent results.
View Certificate
Easy registration
Register and open up a whole world of new possibilities.
Profit guaranteed
You are trusting your money to professionals and will earn high
Sign Up Today
Login Here
10+  Years
Our Investment Plans
TRIAL  PACKAGE
WEEKLY 10% FOR 10 TRADES
for 10 trades
10% roi each time
Minimum : $5,000
Maximum : $9,999
Invest Now
FULL MEMBERSHIP
WEEKLY 15% FOR 90 TRADES
for 90 trades
15% roi each time
Minimum : $10,000
Maximum : $49,999
Invest Now
V.I.P  MEMBERSHIP
WEEKLY 20% FOR 90 TRADES
for 90 trades
20% roi each time
Minimum : $50,000
Maximum : $400,000
Invest Now
SPECIAL  TRADES
WEEKLY 30% FOR 90 TRADES
for 90 trades
30% roi each time
Minimum : $500,000
Maximum : $100,000,000
Invest Now
Our Features
The Features That We Provide For Our Ultimate Clients
Worldwide Access
Invest with us no matter where you are located. No restrictions even for users from China or USA.
High Profitability
We tend to be the cryptocurrency investments with highest ROI in 2020. Also we 100% Guarantee all of your invested fund.
Instant Payments
Your bitcoins are sent to your address as soon as you submit your request. There is no fee for withdrawals of hourly interest
Reliable platform
our risk management group will work closely with your Investment Counsellor to continuously monitor your portfolio and ensure that it remains in alignment with your investment strategy.
Professional Team
Our support will answer your questions in shortest time possible. Please don't hesitate to contact us should you have any questions and we will get back to you in 24 Hours!
High Security
We secure all user data by using 256-bit EV SSL security certificate. We are using trusted DDoS Protection provider.
How We Work
Main advantages
Simple and fast registration
Dynamic investment plans
Accruals are made to the balance every second
Fast payments without commissions and hidden fees
Ability to reinvest and boost profits
Our Investment Statistics
$982,670
Total Deposited
641
Running Days
$947,100
Total Withdraw
450
Total Accounts
I don't have a big experience in trading but I can say that HomeFx is one of the best investment platform, fast support, easy access,fast withrawals and deposits. I really Invite Everyone to join Investment-Rate Company
Kate Black
Texas, United States
Investment-Rate Company is excellent Forex company despite the many companies, however, this company is the beginning of a new generation of investment companies and have a wonderful future, especially that their customer service is excellent and fast withdrawal
Jason Williamson
Austra
I used to work with many trading firm and dealing centers, but recently I was advised to try HomeFx. I signed up and understood that this company is very good and they provide very comfortable Investment conditions.
Micheal McCoy
Barcelona, Spain
Investments-Rate is an innovative and practical cryptocurrency investment platform online, which welcomes all members worldwide.
Important Links
Home
About us
Investemtn Plan
FAQ
Contact
Easy registration
You are trusting your money to professionals and will earn high. Register and open up a whole world of new possibilities.
Signup
Contact Info
5 Greville Road, Clutton, Bristol UK BS395EN
+447537161276
Info@investments-rate.com
Copyright @2021 Investments-Rate