GOK
GOK- COIN
Connect wallet
Connect Wallet
Home
Staking
Wallet
Home
Staking
Wallet
GOK
Gok coin is a Meme coin which was created specifically to improve the crypto ecosystem, especially in the Meme coin ecosystem,!!!
Let's develop Holder Wealth, Gok Price and Gok coin popularity in the cryptocurrency industry.
0
Day
0
Hrs
0
Min
0
Sec
current phase
next week
0
0
Buy GOK Now!
GOK
1 GOK = $0.000
Eth
BUY
Staking
A minimum purchase of 25 USDT is required
Staking Reward
Choose your plan
Yearly
0 GOK
0.1%
Daily
0 GOK
0.05%
Monthly
0 GOK
0.08%
x
BNB
ETH
POL
Avalanche
Fantom
Arbitrum
Tokenomics
Total Supply
2.000.000.000.000
Presale
35%
Liquidity Pool
20%
Community and User Incentives
30%
Development Fund
15%
Team and Advisors
10%
Ecosystem Expansion
19%
Roadmap
Q4 2024
Identification of needs and opinions provides proof of concept and business strategy development as well as technical and promotional projections of Gok coin with presale.
Q1 2025
Project implementation and operation of staking rewards for initial holders as well as continuing to promote and build the community.
Q2 2025
Built up a collaborative community with various large project preparations
Entering the TGE phase and targeting 3 exchange listings simultaneously after 35% of the presale allocation is sold.
Q3 2025
Telegram member target is 150,000 members and preparations for joint collaboration and listing on Binance Exchange.
Q4 2025
All achieved see you at $5
Gok, the ruling coin of the Meme coin ecosystem, goodbye Pepe Shiba and Doge.!!!
WE SUPPORT
Our Mission
Escape the constraints of traditional banking systems with GOK. Our token empowers you to send, receive, and store value across borders without any middlemen. No more waiting, no more high fees. GOK puts financial power back into your hands, offering full control and transparency. Become part of a global network where transactions are seamless and financial freedom is a reality. Purchase GOK and be part of the change today!
Early Adopters Win Big – Don’t Miss Out on GOK
Timing is everything in the crypto world, and GOK is your golden opportunity. With our token just hitting the market, early adopters stand to gain the most. Our roadmap is packed with exciting developments, including strategic partnerships and technological upgrades. By purchasing GOK now, you’re positioning yourself to capitalize on future growth. Don’t wait until it's too late—get in on the ground floor and watch your investment soar!
LISTING TARGET
DISCLAIMER*
This market analysis is informational in nature. This does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any crypto asset, limited liability company or other entity organized, controlled or managed, and therefore should not be relied upon solely in connection with the purchase or sale of crypto assets.
By trading crypto assets, it means that customers already know there is an element of risk in this activity. Crypto asset price changes are very volatile. It is hoped that you will use careful analysis before carrying out activities to buy or sell crypto assets. We do not force customers to buy and sell crypto assets as an investment or to seek profit, which means all trading activities are individual decisions of the user.
Home
Staking
Royalty
Wallet