Kangaroo IT Solutions – Excellent Financial CRM Expert
Skip to content
Toggle NavigationChineseHomeAbout UsServicesProductsKanga CRMKanga Rebate SystemTraders RoomIntegrationsContact UsAustralia Head OfficeSuite 204 , Level 2
185 Elizabath Street
Sydney
Australia 2000
+61 451 913 349
[email protected]
Hong Kong OfficeUnit No. 2312, 23/F
The Metropolis Tower 10 Metropolis Drive Hunghom,
Kowloon Hong Kong
+852 8193 0288
[email protected]
Kangaroo IT solutionselle2023-02-16T02:48:54+00:00
Welcome To Kangaroo IT SolutionsExcellent Financial CRM Expertcontact usFlexible & Customisable Forex CRMKanga CRM® powered by Kangaroo IT Solutions PTY LTD
is a flexible CRM system developed exclusively for Forex Brokers and White Labels who are dedicated to a higher level of Customer Experience. A cost-effective solution, Kanga CRM® can be customized to your exact business model and be optimized to match your existing procedures. Kanga CRM fully integrates with trading platforms (e.g. MT4/5).Kanga CRM® FeaturesIndependent Server Deployment
Brokers are free to choose servers in different parts of the world, Since the independent server is rented or owned by the broker, the data confidentiality is absolutely safe and reliable. We will have a dedicated team to provide support to help brokers properly bury servers.
Rich Report System
Kanga CRM offers a variety of reporting mode, let brokers know clearly about the situation of the customer. In this way, We can operate in a more refined customer group.
Comprehensive Custom Services
The system is independently developed by our professional team to fully support customer customization requirements. Cooperate with the specific requirements of securities firms for different places and markets, which is conducive to the flexible business development of securities firms.
Professional After-sales Service
We have the most professional after-sale team sincerely provide you with products, solution and other help. We have exclusive customer service manager, to provide you with 7 * 24 hours after-sale support services. One-on-one targeted training system function is provided for your quick learning.
Flexible Commission System
Flexible commission settlement system for securities firms of different business needs, to provide a variety of flexible automatic pattern of commission. Improve the efficiency of brokerage commission settlement.
Customer Management Features
All-round, personalized feature set for every process, the steps and functions of the custom settings, The role of different permission configuration, Kanga CRM supports designing your unique role; configure different permissions; strictly control the background of permissions.
Don’t Hesitate to Contact Us ImmediatelyTry FreeWe Build Solutions For Your Everyday ProblemsOur Proven Process Produces Results1. MEETING
Kanga’s professional sales consultants will formulate a plan according to your needs, identify potential customer needs, and provide you with professional consulting services.
2. PLANNING
The members of Kanga’s professional consulting team have more than ten years of experience in the industry. They are very familiar with the business of brokers and agents. They will work with you to confirm the requirements and make the development plan.
3. EXECUTE
Kanga’s software development team has many years of financial market software development experience. The team has gathered the backbone elites of former Ali, Tencent and other well-known e-commerce company.
4. TESTING
Testing is the most important part of Kangaroo. The backbone of each department will participate in the testing. At the same time, customer representatives will be invited to participate in the external testing of the project.
5. DELIVERY
The last part of an endeavor is the hardest to finish. Kangaroo always regards each delivery as a new beginning, and goes all out to do every after-sales services.
We’re Here To Help Your Business Blast Off!Through Creative Ideas, Innovation & Sheer Determination
Let’s Get Started!×We'd Love To Hear From You!
Fill out the form and our team will be in touch with you promptly. Thank you for your interest!
Australia Head Office :
Suite 204, Level2, 185 Elizabeth Street Sydney, Australia, 2000
tel: +61 451 913 349
HongKong Office :
Unit No. 2312, 23/F, The Metropolis Tower, 10 Metropolis Drive, Hunghom, Kowloon ,Hong Kong
tel: +852 8193 0288
[email protected]
www.itskangaroo.com.hk
Your Name *Email *SubjectYour Message *Thank you for your message. It has been sent.×There was an error trying to send your message. Please try again later.×Send
Close
© Copyright 2012 - 2025 |   Kangaroo IT Solutions     |   All Rights Reserved   |   Powered by Kangaroo IT Solutions
Page load link
Go to Top