KLINCOIN - A Feeless Blockchain
EN
RU
BR
ABOUT
TOKEN SALE
ROADMAP
COIN WALLET
FAQ
CONTACT
KLINPAPER
Menu
KLINCOIN - Building a feeless blockchain platform
The KLINX Token is an ERC20 token on the ethereum network. Proceeds from this sale will go towards the development of a truly decentralized, secure and infinitely scalable blockchain.
BUY KLINX TOKEN
KLINX TOKEN SALES IS OPEN
00
days
00
hours
00
minutes
00
seconds
PURCHASE TOKEN NOW
Easy Token Exchange
When the KLIN blockchain is ready, all KLINX Tokens will be exchangeable for KLINCOIN.
Advanced Security
The KLINX Token is an ERC20 Token built on the secured ethereum network.
Decentralized
It also inherits the fully decentralised protocol of the Ethereum network.
A compelling value proposition.
KLINCOIN is a revolutionary blockchain using a novel consensus protocol which we call Positional Proof Of Stake (PPoS).
Nodes and transactions are prioritized not only by their stake, but also by their position, or precisely, based on the time they go online or enter the network. In the PPoS protocol, all wallets are treated as nodes, and must confirm 4 pending or previous transactions before submitting own transaction.
Download Klinpaper
Token Sale
The KLINX Token will be sold at a discounted price for the next 90 days.
0
Start
$2 M
Pre Sale
$12 M
Soft Cap
Start
Started
Token Supply
1,000,000,000,000 KLINX
Accepted Tokens
BTC, ETH, ADA, XRP, EOS
Project Protocol
ERC20 Token
Circulation Supply
700,000,000,000 KLINX
Maximum Cap
Not Available
ICO SALE IS OPEN
00
days
00
hours
00
minutes
00
seconds
Select Payment Method
PURCHASE TOKEN NOW
Roadmap
This is the estimated timeline for the completion of key project milestones.
August 2021
Sale of a physical coin wallet for storing and managing multiple cryptocurrencies. Proceeds will go to the development of the KLIN blockchain based on the novel PPoS consensus protocol.
September 2021
Discounted sale of the KLINX Ether ERC20 Token and multiple listing on exchanges to raise funds and awareness for the further development of the KLIN blockchain.
October 2021
Completion of the KLIN blockchain core. Completion of the full node software. Both will be built using the Javascript, Node.JS and Electrum programming languages.
December 2021
Completion of the web based wallet software. Completion of the lite node software. Both will be built using the Javascript, Node.JS and Electrum programming languages.
January 2022
Lauching the first set of full node clusters and creating the genesis block. Creating a test network to proof the capabilities, security and infinite scalability of the KLIN blockchain.
February 2022
Placement of KlinCoin's initial coin offering on exchanges, and building a swap service on KlinSwap.com to provide additional liquidity for all supported trading pairs.
March 2022
Launching of the mainnet and making history with the Proof Of Position & Stake algorithm. Start developing a new framework and protocol for feeless smart contracts on the KLIN blockchain.
Introducing the Coin Wallet
A physical coin in silver or gold coating. Supports multiple cryptocurrencies and tokens.
Physical Coin
Multi-Crypto Support
Non-Custodial Wallet
Client Side encryption
Transferable
Multi-Signature Support
Join Us On Telegram
To stay up to date on recent developments, please follow us on our Telegram below.
Join Us On Telegram
FAQ
Below is a list of some of our frequently asked questions.
1 What is Proof of Postion & Stake?
It is a consensus mechanism created to drastically reduce the computing power needed to validate transactions in order to keep the blockchain feeless. With PPoS, wallets and lite nodes handle the bulk of the tasks needed to keep the network secure, hence removing the need for fees as in other blockchains.
2 How does the PPoS rewards nodes or stakers?
The computing resource and stake to run a node in an PPoS blockchain is very low, hence no rewards are given. We believe in this scenario, indivudals can run nodes without the need for rewards, just the way torrent networks operates.
1. Bootstrapping: Wallets have to do first do work on the blockchain before submiting their own transaction for processing.
2. Branching: Splitting the computing resource to produce a block by dividing it into branches and sending to different node clusters for confirmation.
3. Pruning: creating a snapshot every 24 hours to create finality and keeping a separate list of the confirmed balances. Nodes only have to search this list, instead of the full blockchain.
4. Slicing: Splitting the full blockchain data across multiple lite nodes. Again nodes don't have to store the full blockchain, thereby saving storage space.
3 What does the "Positional" mean in PPoS?
Nodes and transactions are prioritized based on their position in the blockchain, or time of entry into the network. Also, tasks are assigned to nodes on a next-in-line or positional basis.
4 What is a Coin Wallet?
It is a physical coin with part of your master seed in it. After activating the coin, you are required to create the scond part of the seed by generating a random of 24 alphanumerical characters. The total seed is used in creating an HD wallet for secure storage
5 What if I lose the physical coin?
Recovery options are supported.
6 What benefits can I get from buying the KLINX Token or Coin Wallet?
By buying the KLINX Token or Coin Wallet, you are supporting our missing to build the first truly feeless, decentralized and secure blockchain. Hodlers of the Token or Coin Wallet will receive free KlinCoins based on their holdings when the KLIN blockchain launches.
7 How do I convert my KLINX Token to USD or other currencies?
You can withdraw to your native currencies by converting back to USDT on KlinSwap.com or any supported exchanges, and withdrawing to your bank account using services like Binance and others. Shoot us an email, and we will provide you with trusted exchanges in your country.
Get In Touch
If you wish to know more about our project, invest or send us a word of encouragement, please don't hesitate to contact us.
info@klincoin.org
+44 5739 2927
Join us on Telegram
Drop a message
Submit
2021 © KLINCOIN | All Rights Reserved.
A Feeless Blockchain For the Decentralized Web