Home | LCT Capital, LLC.
Address: 80 Pascal Ln, Austin, TX 78746, USA
E-mail address: info@lctcapitalllc.com
Tel.: +1  (512) 788 9122
Cross-border Services
Home
About Us
Our Mergers & Acquisitions Team
Securities Regulations and Compliance
FAQ M&A’s
Archives
Join Us
Services
Solutions
Venture Capital
Debt Capital Markets
Growth Strategies
News
Contacts
Professional advice andexpert guidance
every step of the way.
Find out more >Allow us tohelp you
reach all of your longterm goals.
How we work >Let us show you the way to success!
We understand the art of investing.
Find out more >
Our firmLCT Capital, LLC is a diversified institutional brokerage firm specializing in various advisory services including portfolio management and cross border transactions, serving institutions, corporations and private individuals worldwide.
Founded in April 2010 and headquartered in the state of Texas, USA, we provide assistance in investment research, advice on corporate equity, debt-, over-the-counter-securities and tax planning. We advise on investments within the United States and overseas, specializing in helping companies and private individuals improve their odds of successful transition based on an integrated, battle-tested approach that links various strategies, due diligence and broad knowledge of laws and regulations.
Our advisors often work secondary markets, alongside external advisory practices, to provide clients with cohesive guidance based on individual and unique circumstances. We have a vast experience from both Mergers and Acquisitions and have assisted various companies across a wide range of industries both at home and abroad.
The primary purpose of Mergers and Acquisitions is not necessarily for companies to grow faster, but to improve the way they operate and by doing so maximize the benefits for shareholders. As with any cross border transaction, mergers and acquisitions are considered precision work. All parties involved, including regulators, investors (private and/or institutional), management and employees are important.
We have worked on hundreds of projects serving companies and investors across continents and strive to bring our clients a disciplined approach to deal making, end-to-end support and well planned finance strategies. Our knowledge and expertise to all elements of the deal-value-chain is a battle-tested concept.
Join us
About us
Follow the moneyEvery merger or acquisition needs a solid plan on how the deal is meant to enhance a company's core strategy. A good plan shows where the money is to be made and potential risks. It should be the focus of both the due diligence on the deal and the subsequent integration. It is the essential difference between a disciplined and an undisciplined acquirer.
Win everyone's confidenceMergers and acquisitions can make all parties involved in the transaction nervous. In general, it's wise to concentrate on what the deal will mean to you and your people and how to maximize the future benefits of such deal for everyone involved. We have assisted various companies in the past serving both management and shareholders.
Generate more valueOnce you have achieved integration, take time to review the process. Evaluate how well it worked and what you can do differently next time. Get the playbook and the names of your integration experts down on paper, so that next time you will be able to do it better and faster-and you will be able to realize that much more value.
Forms
FORM 144 Notice of proposed sale of securities pursuant to Rule 144 (PDF)
FORM SD Specialized Disclosure Report (PDF)
FORM SF-1 Registration Statement Under the Securities Act of 1933 (PDF)
Industry guides
FORM W-8BEN
FORM N-27D-1 Accounting of Segregated Trust Account
Form of share transfer restriction agreement
Confidentiality
Secondary and third market transactions often make a great impact on all parties involved, and public disclosure of a deal in the making can have profound effects on the actual outcome. For this reason, all parties, both private and public, typically begin discussions by confidentiality agreement, or non-disclosure agreement (NDA), a relatively short agreement that restrict parties from disclosing the existence of discussions.News Articles
Global M&A volumes to rise by 50% this year, says Morgan StanleyRegCheck – Asurity’s Cutting-Edge Mortgage Loan Compliance Solution Launches Enhanced TRID CapabilitiesTata Communications to Acquire Kaleyra, a Leading Global CPaaS Platform Player, in All Cash TransactionGridware Raises $10.5 Million to Improve Grid Reliability NationwideStock futures are muted ahead of major bank earningsSpaceX’s Starlink internet service has more than 145,000 users so farStock futures are muted following Dow’s 500-point rebound
More About Us
Our Mergers and Acquisitions Team
Securities Regulations and Compliance
Frequently Asked Questions on Mergers & Acquisitions
Debt Capital Markets
Growth Strategies
Join Our Team
Archives
make an order
get to services list
LCT Capital, LLC 80 Pascal Ln
Austin, TX 78746
USA
Give us a call : +1 (512) 788 9122
Send us a message: info@lctcapitalllc.com
Online Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Cookies Policy
© 2024 LCT Capital, LLC. A registered brokerage firm, regulated by FINRA. All rights reserved.