LOBSTR — Simple and Secure Stellar Wallet
Sign In
Get Started
Apps
LOBSTR for iOS
LOBSTR for Android
Vault for iOS
Vault for Android
Trade
Buy & Sell Crypto
Buy Stellar Lumens
Buy USD Coin (Stellar)
Buy Bitcoin
Buy Ethereum
Buy Litecoin
Buy other crypto
Sell crypto
Products
LOBSTR Vault
LOBSTR | Signer Extension
StellarTerm
StellarX
Partners
Become a Partner
Asset Listing
Help Center
Simple & Secure
Stellar Wallet
LOBSTR is a great way to get started with Stellar. Simple, smooth and secure, it has all what it takes to manage your Lumens wisely.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Desktop & mobile
Manage your funds anytime and anywhere with our great mobile and web apps. Track prices and stay up to date with markets.
Safe and secure
LOBSTR provides highly secure storage for your Lumens and other digital assets, offering 2FA and multisig protection.
Simple & clean
Nice design, simple interface, clear instructions and helpful tips. LOBSTR is an easy way to get started with crypto.
Stellar: decentralized  payment network
Stellar is a stable financial platform open for businesses, banks and individuals across the globe. Stellar allows to send payments in seconds, reliably and with extremely low fees.
Stellar is an open-source protocol for exchanging money, its network validates transactions and allows irreversible and cryptographically secure payments.
Learn More About Stellar
Learn more about LOBSTR
LOBSTR is a leading platform for managing Stellar Lumens and other assets issued on Stellar network. With over 700 positive reviews LOBSTR is one of the most popular and trusted solution for Stellar.
Watch Overview
Manage assets
Discover new tokens, send, request and receive them easily, using friendly memorable addresses similar to email.
Learn More
Buy crypto
Purchase Lumens, Bitcoin, Ethereum, and other cryptocurrencies using Visa, Mastercard, or ACH transfer.
Buy Now
Decentralized trading
Direct access to Stellar Decentralized Exchange (SDEX), so you can buy and sell Stellar assets inside your wallet.
Trade Now
Secure storage
For maximum security you can enable 2FA and setup multisig. You are the only person who can access your money.
Create Account
Track prices
See how your portfolio performs over time, track prices and setup alerts to be notified when market moves.
Get Started
All assets in one place
Many companies have issued their tokens on Stellar network: stablecoins, tethered crypto assets, tech startups, ICOs.  Trade and manage them all with LOBSTR.
Create Account
1,000,000+
Total users
Intuitive design and user-friendly interface make LOBSTR the go-to choice for beginners and pros. Easily send, receive, and trade your crypto.
4.75
On Google Play & App Store
LOBSTR is the most trusted wallet on the Stellar network, thanks to its regular updates, powerful features, and ongoing support.
Based on 30K+ reviews
5,000,000+
Monthly transactions
Lightning-fast and affordable transactions with some of the lowest fees on the market, providing the seamless digital experience you deserve.
We are here to help!
Have further questions? Visit our Help Center and read through the FAQ  or reach out to our support team if you need any help.
Support
Help Center
LOBSTR is operated by an independent
commercial entity unaffiliated with the
Stellar Development Foundation.
Twitter
Medium
Github
Products
LOBSTR Vault
LOBSTR | Signer Extension
StellarTerm
StellarX
Merge Tool
Buy & Sell Crypto
Buy Stellar Lumens
Buy USD Coin (Stellar)
Buy Bitcoin
Buy Ethereum
Sell Crypto
Connect
Support
Help Center
Business Partners
Asset Listing
Downloads
© 2025 Lobstr.co Ultra Stellar, OÜ.
Terms of Service |
Privacy Policy