MEROPE ROYAL TRADING || HOME
info@meroperoyaltrading.com
+254 718 809 048
Home
About Us
Our Services
Ground Freight Logistics
Ocean Freight Logistics
Air Freight Logistics
Safekeeping & Warehousing
Customs Clearance
Third Party Logistics
FAQs
Track Your Cargo
Contact Us
Merope Royal Trading Limited
- Powering Trade
Logistics Services
Providing Global Logistics
- Our Services are available Worldwide
About Us
Boundless Reach
- Easily extend your shipping reach across borders with support from our transborder pros
Transborder Logistics
Critical Deliveries
- Combining time definite deliveries with customizable cold chain service options
Urgent Cargo
Flexible Fulfillment
- Grow your global reach with rapid, cost-effective e-commerce shipping solutions
Final Mile Delivery
Set . Ready . Sail
- Review our comprehensive guide to navigating the international trade rules
Our Services
Private Jet Charter
- Let's help you acquire the best Private Jets in the market at friendly rates
Charter Private Jet
Unrivaled Logistics & Shipping
- Our global partner network is dedicated to achieving our measurable standards of world-class service and high performance
Global Logistics
Air Freight Solutions
Merope Royal Trading partners with the industry's most recognizable global air carriers to deliver national gateway management and capacity advantages for import and export commodities. Experience great Freight Services at competitive price
in the market
Land Freight Solutions
Strength in numbers, as a non-asset based carrier, scalable solutions are developed to meet the transit demands of even the most complex supply chains.
Ocean Cargo Logistics
Leverage our cost optimization with end-to-end reliability with a seamless transportation and expansive ocean network of steamships, co-loaders and global carriers that specialize in strategic, transactional and niche services.
MEROPE ROYAL TRADING LIMITED
Intergrated End to End Logistics & Air Cargo Solutions
Merope Royal Trading Limited is an integrated end to end logistics and air cargo solutions provider based in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda with over 15+ years experience. At Merope Royal Trading we provide supply chain
solutions to our customers from the source to the final destination. We are located in Nairobi, Mombasa and Eldoret in Kenya, Dar es Salaam in Tanzania and in Kampala, Uganda.
Our logistics services comprise customs clearance, freight forwarding, warehousing, transportation, port services and air cargo handling in East Africa. At Siginon, we ably serve regional
and international markets focusing on satisfying needs in East Africa and the Great Lakes region. Some of our key markets include Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, Somali, Northern DR Congo and Southern Sudan.
Our Mission
Our Vision
Corporate Culture
To provide value-added and business -focused logistics services that are innovative, practical and top quality and develop collaborative partnerships for success by providing our customers and associates with the best quality
logistics, custom clearance, warehousing, freight forwarding, transportation, distribution services and supply chain consultation
To become a good, reliable, effective and efficient logistics services provider in East Africa and beyond, committed to service, diligence and dedication. Smart logistics is at the root of our culture, so that our customers
can rest assured of the best services and that Transmeridian International Logistics stands ready to deliver with the sense of urgency your freight demands, To ensure we have the experience necessary to offer creative,
cost effective solutions; balanced with responsive collaboration and flexibility to meet your specific and unique logistics needs.
Our company’s corporate culture is built on professionalism, expertise and team work of leading employees. These factors are the backbone of the company’s high development potential and dynamism. We at Merope Royal Trading Limited                                    know and believe that top rate loyal employees are the cornerstone to our success.
Road Freight Logistics
With the aid of our global partners, we are able to provide our customers with uncompromised access to all the major European Markets via a road freight network,supported by a fleet of 2500 vehicles and a series of strategic hubs
throughout the continent.
We specialise in offering reliable service for both groupage and full trailer loads, with regular departures from strategic hubs throughout the Continent.
Road Freight
Bulky Cargo Solutions
We have an expansive Network of Freight partners, allowing us to consistently provide reliable service at competitive pricing.
We provide weekly container groupage freight departures into Africa from UK and Asian Ports. We also offer value added services such as packaging and labelling (even under Customs Control) to suit any client’s needs.
Ocean Cargo
Urgent Cargo Services
We offer door-to- door and door-to- airport services to over 800 hundred cities in major markets across the globe, specialising in time sensitive shipments above 100 kilograms.
48 hour arrival at destination airport with Express Service, 3-5 days with Standard Service.
Air Cargo Services
Project Cargo
For projects requiring materials that exceed standard shipping weights and dimensions, we provide custom planned logistics services to ensure that all a client’s needs are met on time and in a quality fashion.
Irrespective of the size or weight of your cargo, we will tailor-make a logistical solution that makes sense both logistically and financially. Project Cargo brings with it a high level of stress and risk. We appreciate this and
our priority is making sure to put your mind at rest whilst assuring you that your goods will be handled in the best way possible.
Request a Quote
Warehousing & Safekeeping
We offer storage solutions through our Hub in Africa. This storage infrastructure also allows us to provide Third Party Logistics services tailored to suit your needs and requirements.
At Merope Royal Trading, we take care of all the customs documentations for you, which is normally a tedious and time-consuming activity which we are glad to take off your hands as part of our service. Once the goods have
been cleared and are ready to be moved out from the freeport, we handle the unloading in our warehouses as well as the relative deliveries which need to be done locally.
Warehousing Logistics
Know your Consignment Location
Track SKR No. or AWB No. on our system to get real-time updates
Track your Cargo
Why People Choose Merope Royal Trading Limited
As a global transportation management leader, Merope Royal Trading Limited helps companies grow. We expand their access to markets all over the world, so they can sell and procure raw materials, components and finished
goods.
After more than 15 years in business as a global transportation provider, our consultative approach coupled with a vast worldwide network has forged trusted partnerships across nearly every industry, including aerospace, e-commerce,
food, government, healthcare, life sciences, retail and more.
Adapt To Change
Our risk management strategy supports multiple modes and carriers to quickly adapt to change as needed.
Security For Cargo
Our shipments meet high-security requirements and are certified to the highest local standards.
White-Glove Support
Our customer support team is ready to deliver success for your company with concierge-level service.
Real-Time Tracking
Real-time tracking is available through our technology portal, which includes geo-fencing and alert monitoring.
Accurate Invoicing
Our convenient payment options and accurate invoicing making partnering with us easy.
Competitive Pricing
We continually focus on value, cost mitigation, and optimization in the supply chain to offer competitive pricing.
Delivering Time Sensitive, Complex, and High-Valued Solutions!
Merope Royal Trading Limited provides expertise and white glove customer service with fast-growing, complex, and high-value supply chains.
As the next-generation model of logistics companies, Merope Royal Trading Limited offers tailored transportation and logistics solutions – from single shipments to complex over-dimensional and international orders. Merope Royal
Trading Limited offers the scale and scope of services including air, ocean, and ground transportation to meet the budget and schedule requirements of the largest and smallest companies alike.
Fast & Safe Delivery
Product Security
Price Oriented
Secured Payment
24/7 Support
Expertise Services
Hear From Our Clients
Selecting a freight forwarding firm is an important decision for your company. Your company must be able to depend on its freight forwarder in order to uphold and continue its own engagement of quality and services towards your own customers,
while considering service level, flexibility and cost.
I have been doing business with MEROPE ROYAL TRADING LIMITED ever since they opened their doors. The staff is amazing! Very helpful and considerate with a sense of urgency. Loads are 99% on time and the rates are very competitive.
I look forward to doing business with them for many years to come.
Gayle Johnson
Food Industry
As a Supply Chain Manager we are always looking for a tailored program to meet our customer requirements. MEROPE ROYAL TRADING LIMITED has developed a logistics program that fits our local, domestic, and international transportation
needs. We are able to pick up the phone and MEROPE ROYAL TRADING LIMITED team is there to fulfill our complicated requirements. Customer service is a priority with the MEROPE ROYAL TRADING LIMITED team. We feel we have logistics
partner and not a run of the mill transportation supplier.
William H.
Telecommunications Company
I ONLY use MEROPE ROYAL TRADING LIMITED for my shipping needs. My clients have all come to expect the excellent shipping and handling of their merchandise that Global has to offer. Their expediting team makes it possible to get jobs
out last minute if necessary and let us know when it has delivered.
Kim O.
Customs Designs
Join Newsletter For Daily Bulletins...
Subscribe Now
+254 718 809 048
info@meroperoyaltrading.com
Nairobi, Kenya
The Company
Home
About
Services
FAQs
Why Choose Us
Contact Us
Logistics Solutions
Ground Freight
Ocean Freight
Air Freight
Safekeeping & Warehousing
Customs Clearance
Third Party Logistics
Disclaimer:
The information shown on this website is drafted by Merope Royal Trading with utmost care, however Merope Royal Trading is not liable for the correctness, topicality and completeness thereof. The information supplied on this website
can be changed at any moment and without further notice. Merope Royal Trading is not liable for the consequences of the change(s) of this website.
Copyright @2021 Merope Royal Trading. All Rights Reserved.