METAKINGS | DASHBOARD ARENA
Skip
ENG
Contact
Home
About us
Game Thriller
Tokenomics
Contract
Buy MTK
Docs
Buy MTK
Our SmartContract
Whitepaper
View Contract Audit
See us on Coinmarketcap
See us on Coingecko
See us on nomics
© 2021 Metakings is based in the United Kingdom. All other trademarks or trade names are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
AI GAMING METAVERSE
Recruit your ARMY, Fight the BATTLE, Collect your REWARDS!
Buy MTK
Documentation
About The Game
Metakings is an AI-powered fighting universe in which anyone can earn rewards such as tokens and NFTs through competent gameplay and contributions to the ecosystem. Players can engage in combat, gather resources, develop their characters, and establish their own land-based kingdoms. The game will be powered by its official token, the Metakings token ($MTK). In-game characters can also be collected as NFTs in the game and exchanged for tokens in our official NFT marketplace.
15000
Unique Characters
350
Epic Bosses
35
Battle Arenas
THE METAKINGS THRILLER
Incredible AtmosphereMetakings is based on high-quality PvP and PvE characters, schenes, and gameplay created in the Unreal Engine 4.
Catchy BattlesEnjoy an exciting 3D gameplay from any device. High-end game details will be based on the devices' graphics handling power.
Exciting RewardsGamers will earn rewards from gaming, while holders will earn rewards based on the quantity of tokens they hold.
The $MTK Tokenomics and Accurate Roadmap
Our Token is Designed to always Reward the Holders and Players.
$MTK serves as the native currency for Metakings. Players use $MTK to mint characters, mint arenas, extending the lives of your characters by hiring and Buy/Sell on the Metakings Marketplace. There is a maximum supply of 1,000,000,000 $MTK tokens. Liquidity will be locked and the Game rewards will be vested for 6 months. Please proceed to the Docs for more information.
Tokenomics
Road Map
© 2021 Metakings is based in the United Kingdom. All other trademarks or trade names are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
Telegram
Twitter
Medium
Join Presale