REVEALED! Here Are The Artists And Hits That Have Ruled Airwaves For Last 6 Months
REVEALED! Here Are The Artists And Hits That Have Ruled Airwaves For Last 6 Months
Follow Us:
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
Search for:
Home
News
Gossip
Showbiz
Luganda
Sports
lottery Results
Videos
Galaxy TV
×
Home
News
Gossip
Showbiz
Luganda
Sports
videos
Galaxy TV
Listen
REVEALED! Here Are The Artists And Hits That Have Ruled Airwaves For Last 6 Months
June 4, 2018 | iWitness
Yes, the year has not just started! We are now in the middle of 2018 and musically speaking most UG artists have not been in slumber .
Within this particular period, more hit jams have been produced and some artists are taking the lead in this competitive entertainment industry. However unlike last year where we had new budding artists Fik Fameika and Vinka ruling the airwaves and sweeping awards , this year we are yet to find one.
As we still anticipate for a music marathon in the remaining half, today we are taking you through those jams that cannot miss out on any DJ’s playlist,Radios and TV countdowns for the past 5 months.
Note that for a song to feature here MUST be 3-5 months old.
Property ( Fik Fameica):
This dude from Kawempe has surprised and proved to his critics who had earlier written him off that indeed he is still here with us.
After enjoying a great 2017 sweeping awards and murdering gigs with massive jams like ‘Kutama’, Byenyenya and ‘Gwe Abisobola’ Ft Byaxy, in March Freshbwoy dropped another monster hit (Property) which has enjoyed massive airplay in and around the city. T
his jam is so popular among the youths where he holds a strong fans base.
Didadada (A Pass):
Had it not been this tune, Reggae and Ragga dancehall singer Alex Bagonza aka A Pass wouldn’t be yapping and stepping on other artists’ toes as he has been of late.
Off his well beefed up Album ‘African Yaya’ this song spread like wild fire within a few hours of its release.
Slay Queens, kids and wannabes are well versed with every line A Pass sung about. Every secular Radio and TV station has been playing it however, it is steadily fading away.
Chips Na Ketchup ( Vinka):
Surely God is still performing miracles and this Swangz Avenue’s top prize queen is a good example one. Honestly, no one hardly anticipated that Vinka would come a topic she is now.
Credit should be given to her managers at the Muyenga based record label.
Chips Na Ketchup has a danceable beats and simple lyrics that all Gold diggers and Slay queens can sing along to. The Audio was released in match but it is still ruling airwaves.
Who is who ( Feffe Bussi):
‘The Smallest Rapper’ as he prefers calling himself jokingly dropped this Luga Flo jam but little did he know that it could turn him into a topic and fetch him a fortune.
Ever since then, this particular song has made him a hot cake, securing gigs, Radio and TV interviews and some collabos, notably with Queen Sheebah and Spice Diana.
It is one of those songs which have received massive attention country wide.
Champion & Mateeka ( Jose Chameleone):
After receiving some negative criticism from music lovers for being musically reluctant in 2017, Chamili rushed back to studio and nonetheless rediscovered his magical touch.
As early as January the legendary star had already sketched something fresh for his fans. He dropped an inspirational song in Champion that has massively received airplay on all media houses and night spots.
As the dust was still settling, the Leone Island boss released another club banger; ‘Mateeka’. Surprising, this tune also excited Katikiro of Buganda and he smeared butter on Chamili for being versatile and creative.
iWitnessEnock Mugabi aka iWitness is a Journalist, Seasoned Writer and Music Analyst with a passion for sports.
Connect with him on social media using the links below in bio.
Related Stories
Latest Videos
Video! Pants Down: School headmaster nabbed harvesting pupil
June 7, 2023
Full Video: Kitgum official nabbed ‘orienting’ an intern in broad daylight office nyam
June 6, 2023
VIDEO: Butcha Man and his gang beat up Rocky Giant for calling himself a Ghetto President
September 30, 2020
GYM TERIMBA BOSS LADY! Fans worried for Winnie Nwagi’s bullies and stalkers as star singer starts boxing lessons to take them fist on chin
March 15, 2020
VIDEO: Rastafarians tell Bobi Wine to go back to the ghetto and save their dreadlocks
January 22, 2020
2.Heavy police deployment at old taxi park amidst looming fears of protests from defiant taxi drivers as KCCA enforces operation to transfer transfer to Usafi park.
October 29, 2019
Download Our APP
Download the Galaxy FM 100.2 App and listen to the radio while on the move.
Quick Links
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Concert Terms And Conditions
External Links
Blue Cube Ltd
Galaxy TV
Simply SMS
© Galaxy FM 100.2, All rights reserved.