Video Game Addiction Claims
Talk with a lawyer, typically immediately or on the same day. It’s free, and you don’t need to have any paperwork on hand.More questions?Just ask!Free ConsultationDo I Qualify?Talk with a lawyer, typically immediately or on the same day. It’s free, and you don’t need to have any paperwork on hand.More questions? Just ask!Do I qualify?Free Claim ReviewBig gaming companies have designed their products to be incredibly addictive, especially for young boys and girls.PFAS in US Tapwater might have caused your injury.Is your child a victim of video game addiction?Big gaming companies have designed their products to be incredibly addictive, especially for young boys and girls.YOU MAY BE ELIGIBLE FOR COMPENSATIONYOU MAY BE ELIGIBLE FOR COMPENSATIONMental IllnessADHD/ADD, anxiety, depression, irritability, psychological distress.Physical InjuriesEye strain, repetitive strain injuries, and sedentary lifestyle diseases.Quality of LifeEscapism, poor school performance, sleep deprivation, and social isolation.Withdrawal SymptomsAggression, gamer's rage, and disengagement from daily activities.Life-Changing Affects Caused By Gaming AddictionAs a parent, nothing is more heartbreaking than seeing your child struggle with issues you never expected. If your child has been affected by video games like Fortnite, Call of Duty, or others, and is now facing health challenges, please know you're not alone, and this isn't your child's fault.Recently, gaming companies been accused of prioritizing profit over the mental well-being of their users, leading to serious consequences for our children.According to an article in the medical science journal Cureus, symptoms of video game addiction include:• Distracting preoccupation with gamingSomeone with a gaming addiction may think about gaming excessively often or for long periods of time. Such thoughts may be intrusive and can distract them from other important tasks.• DeceptionA person with a gaming addiction may lie about how they spend their time. For example, a teenager may tell their parents they’ve been doing their homework. Their parents might know they’ve actually been in their room gaming for hours.• Gaming interfering with daily tasksGaming addiction involves playing games for long periods of time every day or most days. Some devote so much time to gaming that they overlook other daily tasks, like eating and bathing.• Loss of interest in other activitiesGaming addiction may take over someone’s life to the point that they no longer participate in activities they once enjoyed. For example, a gamer might stop playing sports or working out when they develop a gaming addiction.• Withdrawing from social lifeGaming is often a solitary activity. A person experiencing gaming addiction may thus withdraw from their social life to devote more time to gaming. Relationships gamers make in the game may become more important than those in real life.• Emotional and psychological changesGaming addiction may cause a person to be agitated or unfocused when they can’t game. When someone asks them to stop playing, they may become defensive or angry.• Using gaming as an easy escapeEscapism isn’t inherently negative. Many people watch TV or read books to escape for a moment. However, those with gaming addictions may rely on gaming to escape from life, so they don’t have to address actual issues.• Gaming despite experiencing consequencesExperiencing the consequences of gaming addiction may not stop a person from continuing to play video games too often. For example, perhaps someone’s relationship ends, or they drop out of school because they spend too much time gaming. If they don’t make changes despite this consequence, they might have a gaming addiction problem.What Are the Signs of Video Game Addiction?How Does Gaming Addiction Happen?While internet gaming disorder has not been researched as fully yet as other types of addiction, there is a strong body of scientific evidence supporting our legal claims. Gaming companies may create gaming addiction through such tactics as:• Hiring Ph.D. behavioral psychologists and neuroscientists to develop their games• Using predatory monetization strategies • Collecting data to promote personalized content• Using feedback loops to give users a reason to continue playingWhat Are Treatment Options for Video Game Addiction?Clinical evidence has shown that subjects addicted to online games experience biopsychological symptoms and complications including hangovers, changes in mood, adaptability, and withdrawal. Effective treatments for gaming addiction may include:• Therapy/counseling• Medication• Substance abuse treatmentResearch into gaming addiction treatments has been fairly limited thus far. More research must be done to determine how effective these treatments may be.How We Can HelpA gaming addiction can rob a person of their friends, family, career, and even health. It may be possible to hold negligent gaming companies accountable and recover money to take care of the addicted person’s medical and psychological needs. Gaming addiction claims and lawsuits aren’t as common as other types of cases, so it is important to hire a lawyer with relevant experience when filing a gaming addiction claim. Hilliard Law is a nationally recognized law firm dedicated to fighting for justice and advocating for individuals harmed by corporate negligence. With a proven track record in high-stakes litigation, we take pride in holding powerful entities accountable. Our compassionate attorneys are committed to standing up for those whose lives have been impacted by video game addiction, particularly when developers knowingly employ exploitative practices. At Hilliard Law, we understand the profound effects this issue can have on individuals and families, and we are here to listen, guide, and fight for your rights. Let us help you seek the justice you deserve.Our team of attorneys can:• Explain whether you have a case• Identify the liable parties• Submit a gaming addiction claim on your behalf• Gather documentation to prove your losses• Negotiate for a fair settlementCompensation for gaming addiction may include money for the cost of medical treatment, mental health difficulties, and other such struggles that can result from gaming addiction. Our gaming addiction law firm is also already working with clients in an effort to change how gaming companies like Microsoft and Epic Games design their products. A successful lawsuit could force them to stop actively designing addictive games.Help is available if you or a loved one has become addicted to gaming.How it HappensTreatment OptionsWe Can HelpSigns of AddictionLawsuits are Being FiledIf you believe video games might have contributed to your child's health issues, you may be eligible for compensation. Even if you're unsure, it's worth exploring your options. The deadline to sign up is approaching quickly, but it only takes a moment to apply. We offer a free case evaluation with no obligation—just a caring team ready to listen and help you understand if you qualify.Get Started NowAdvertising by X Social MediaTHIS IS ATTORNEY ADVERTISING. Past performance is not an indication of future results.By filling out the form above, I agree to receive telephone calls and text messages at the telephone number provided above/below (including any mobile number provided) to our law firm . I understand that consent to receiving phone calls and/or text is not a condition to the formation of an attorney-client relationship. I also have read and agree to your Privacy Policy.Free Claim Review3B6.6%58%people play video games worldwideestimated prevalence of a gaming disorder in children and adolescentsof Americans playvideo games- Distressing Video Game Addiction Statistics & Facts1.2.3.Complete the form, and our law firm intake team will contact you to assess your eligibility for a claim. If you meet the criteria, we will send you a legal contract for your signature, initiating the compensation process.To process your claim for compensation, we will gather supporting evidence pertaining to your injury and subsequently submit your claim.The Claim ProcessGet Started Now