Grace Academy Center Daycare| | K-12 Private School | Houston Texas
Skip to content
Home
About
Services
Enrollment
Online Bill Payment
Contact
Enroll nowEnroll now
Main Menu
Home
About
Services
Enrollment
Online Bill Payment
Contact
Play. explore.  learn.
Grace Academy Daycare Center has been committed to help serve and assist with some of your parental responsibilities, and to take care of your children in a safe and healthy Christian environment. We are a weekday daycare provider and we work for your convenience while making sure your child is being nurtured and cared for. We put your child’s success first and we will take every step needed to prepare them for future.
Enroll your Child
 4.8/5
4.8 rating on Google
281-564-7220
WELCOME TO GRACE ACADEMY CENTER
WHY CHOOSE US?
We believe every single child is key to our success.
We pride ourselves on meeting their needs. Your satisfaction as a parent matters to us. At Grace Academy, we are here for you.
Know more about us
Upcoming Events
Grace Academy spends quality time on each child’s development by ensuring that their needs are met with the various services we provide from infancy to K-12.
We are here for you!
We have many events lined up throughout the year for our children including our exciting annual summer camp. Our children's safety and your peace of mind is our aim and goal.
Our experienced staff are highly trained and qualified. They are dedicated to providing your child with individualized and trusted care: educationally, physically, socially, and emotionally.
We are staffed with professional, caring employees that understand the needs of your child and meet parents’ expectations. Grace Academy Center provides the best quality child care to satisfy you and your child’s delicate needs.
Day care
Schedule and tuition
If ever you have questions, concerns, or feel you are ready to enroll your child in our daycare center, call us at 281-564-7220.
Enroll your kid
More than just a joyful place
Enroll your kid
Our aim at Grace Academy Daycare Center is to assist with some of your parental responsibilities, and to take care of your child a safe and healthy Christian environment.
Feel free to contact us regarding any information, requests or concerns.
15401 Bellaire BlvdHouston, TX 77083Inside Grace International Church
281-564-7220gickidsacademy@gmail.com
Copyright © 2025 Grace Academy Center  Daycare| | K-12 Private School | Houston Texas. Powered by Core Brands™.