[REQ_ERR: 405] [KTrafficClient] Something is wrong. Enable debug mode to see the reason. 1xBet Download App ➤ with Bonus up to ₹33000 + 150 FS
Scroll top
ReviewBettingCasinoBonusDepositPromo CodeFAQRegistrationLegalContact US
Download
Register
Menu
ReviewBettingCasinoBonusDepositPromo CodeFAQRegistrationLegalContact US
1xBet App Download for Android (APK) and iOS1xBet is one of the biggest legal betting sites in the world,  1xBet App available on smartphones and tablets with Android or iOS. 1xBet's audience is quite large. It has more than 400,000 bettors worldwide. The betting site also operates in India. Residents of India can legally bet on sports and play casino games using Indian rupees.We also recommend checking out the very generous Welcome Bonuses - up to 33,000 Indian rupees for Sports Betting and 130,000INR+150 Freespins for Casinos . Get the lucrative bonuses and start betting right now on the official 1xBet website!
REGISTER AND RECEIVE 33000 INR BONUS RIGHT NOW!
Join 1XBETBasic information about 1xBet Betting Site🌍World / India opening date2007 / 2018 year👮‍♀️LicenceCuracao eGaming № 1668/JAZ🤠Owner company1X Corp N.V. (Cyprus)🖥SoftwareAndroid and iOS application, desktop and mobile version of the website💸Types of betsBetting on sports, cyber sports, social events and casinos🤑BonusesWelcome bonuses, for sports betting, for casinos, cashback, shop promo codes, etc.💵CurrenciesIndian rupees, euros, dollars💵Minimum deposit75 (for sports betting), 100 Indian rupees (for casinos)💵Minimum output300 Indian rupees👨‍💻SupportLive chat on website and app 24/7, phone, email, social media1xBet app in India: History, Legality and Features
Betting site 1xBet has been providing online casino services since 2007. It reportedly expanded into a full-fledged betting house in 2014, adding sports betting, and other forms of gambling to its list of services, although specifics on these additions are needed for full clarity.1xBet launched in India in 2018, providing a free betting app for Android and iOS users and a website that catered to Indian residents. The classic blue and white design of 1xBet and the simple, easy-to-navigate interface of its app and website make the platform user-friendly.The 1xBet site interface supports 50 languages, including Hindi, and its support service is available in English.License and Legality of 1xBet Betting Site in India1xBet operates under Curacao license No. 1668/JAZ. While the site does accept Indian players, it should be noted that the legal landscape for online gambling in India is complex. While 1xBet is registered in Cyprus, this does not necessarily mean it operates legally in India. Laws vary by state, and some states in India have laws that restrict certain types of online gambling. You can check out other legal best betting sites in India.Rules and Regulations for using 1xBet App and WebsiteBy registering on the 1xBet app and website, the user agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the betting site. Compliance with these rules and regulations is aimed at upholding the principles of responsible gaming and safe operation within the legal framework.The following mandatory rules and regulations apply to Indian users:Only users over the age of 18 are permitted to register and place bets on 1xBet;Upon registration on the website or app, the player confirms that they do not have a gambling addiction;Each user may register only one account per phone number, e-mail address, and ID document;During the verification process, the 1xBet Administration reserves the right to arrange a video conference and/or request additional documentation via mail;A client with a verified account has the option to limit spending or suspend the account for a specified period of time;Customers of 1xBet will always be notified of any winnings or losses from their bets. In case of disagreement with the bet result, the customer can contact the 1xBet Support Team for clarification within 10 days.The customer will be notified of any changes or amendments to the “1xBet Rules and Regulations.”If an account has not been used for 3 months or more, 1xBet may block the account. However, it can be unblocked by contacting the Support Team.The customer’s 1xBet account may be blocked without explanation or the possibility of withdrawing funds under the following circumstances: when multiple accounts registered to the same person are detected, when fraudulent activity is detected, when false personal information is provided, when a customer refuses to verify their account, or when a violation of the “1xBet Rules and Regulations” is detected.
Free 1xBet App for Android and iOS
The 1xBet app was created for convenient use of the betting office on mobile devices. It features a lightweight interface and additional elements for easy navigation through the app’s sections. The app can be installed on any smartphone running Android or iOS. It automatically adjusts to your device’s screen size, allowing for comfortable one-handed use.1xBet App for AndroidWe recommend checking if the app meets the minimum system requirements before installing it. For stable performance, your smartphone must have Android 5.0 or higher and at least 90MB of free memory to install the 1xBet app. You can download the Android app from the official 1xBet website. An APK file is available in the “App” section, which you need to download to your device and install according to the instructions:Before running the installation file, you need to enable the installation of programs from unknown sources in your phone settings.Then, follow the instructions provided by the program to install the file on the device.The installer will create a 1xBet application shortcut, allowing you to launch the software.The Android mobile app will need periodic updates to access the latest features. To update the app, simply download the APK file for the newer version from the website and install it as described above.1xBet App for iOSBefore installing the app on your iPhone or iPad, you should verify whether the app meets the minimum system requirements. For stable operation, the iOS device on which the 1xBet app will be installed must have iOS 12.0 or higher and at least 220 MB of free memory.  The 1xBet iOS app is available for installation in the App Store. To do so, enter “1xBet official app” in the search bar of the store and click “Install”. The app from the App Store will update itself as soon as a new version is available in the store.Computer and Mobile Web Versions of 1xBet Website1xBet’s website is available for use on both desktop and mobile browsers. As a result, you can access the betting site on your computer or smartphone without needing to install an app.The 1xBet web version does not require downloading or updating like an app would. To access the site, simply enter the betting site’s web address into the address bar of your browser.The functionality of the mobile and computer versions of the 1xBet website is no different from that of the app, making the browser-based experience just as convenient as using the app.Registration, Authorization and Verification in 1xBet AppRegistration in 1xBet AppYou can gain access to all the features of the betting site after registering your 1xBet account. You can register using one of four methods:Registration by phone number. For this, the customer needs to provide their Indian operator’s phone number, currency (Indian rupees), and enter the promo code in the registration form. Then, they must click on the “Get confirmation code” button. Afterward, the player will receive an SMS on the provided phone number containing the confirmation code, which must be entered in the appropriate field. After pressing the “Register” button, the account will be created automatically.Registration by e-mail address: With this method, users enter their country and city of residence, email address, phone number (with an Indian operator), first and last name, password, promo code, and select the currency type in the form. After clicking the “Register” button, customers will receive an email containing a one-time link. Clicking on this link will activate their 1xBet account.Registering through social networks: You can sign up with 1xBet using social networking sites like Facebook, Google, or Twitter. All you need to do is allow these social networks, choose your preferred currency and country of residence, and you are all set.One-Click Registration: To register using this method, you need to specify your country of residence, currency, enter your promo code, and click on the “Register” button. Login in 1xBet SystemAfter registering with the 1xBet app, the player needs to log in to the system to continue using the betting site. Regardless of the registration method, there are three steps to log in to 1xBet:In the betting app or on the homepage, click on the “Login” button.In the login form, specify one of the following based on your registration method:Indian phone number and password (if registered by phone number)Email address/account number and password (if registered by email address)Account number and password (if registered through social media)Username and password (if registered using one-click registration)Click the “Login” button  Verification 1xBetVerification is a mandatory identity verification procedure that every registered user at 1xBet must undergo. Without verification, it is impossible to withdraw any winnings.The verification process is completed online in three steps:The client fills in the fields in their personal profile with accurate personal information, according to their passport data.The user then sends the betting company’s support service a color scan or a clear photo of a document confirming their identity. They may choose from one of the following: a passport or its notarized copy, a photo of the client with their passport, a military ID card, a driver’s license, or a voter’s card.After document verification, the user will receive an email with the results of the verification process. The administration typically completes verification within three days.
1xBet - Bonuses, Promo Codes and other Benefits
Increase your potential cash prize or seize the opportunity to place a free bet at 1xBet, courtesy of a wide array of available bonuses and promo codes. Let’s delve deeper into these offerings:Welcome Bonus for Sports Betting (up to 130% of your first deposit bonus, but not more than Rs. 33,000), or a Bonus for new Casino Users (not more than 130,000 INR and 150 free spins) by promo code 1XBETIND.“Lucky Friday“. It is activated after making a deposit on Friday and wagering the bonus within 24 hours.“Wednesday Promotion”. This promotion is available to members of the “Happy Friday” program. It’s activated after making 10 bets on Monday and Tuesday, then making a deposit on Wednesday, and finally wagering the bonus within 24 hours.“Cashback”. Three types of cashback bonuses are available – a 10% cashback on deposits made through specific payment systems, a VIP Loyalty Program Cashback, and a Weekly Cashback Bonus.“Sports Specific Bonuses”. These are available on matches from renowned competitions.“Bonuses for online casino games”.“Promocode shop”. This allows players to exchange bonus points earned from betting and casino games for promotional codes.“Free bet on a player’s birthday”.For a complete list of promotional codes and bonuses available at the betting site, please visit the “1xBet Most Advantageous Player Bonuses” page.How do I Bet on Sports in the App and Play at 1xBet Casino?You can place your first bets and play in the casino as soon as you register with 1xBet and make a deposit of the required amount in your personal account. The betting process will then proceed as follows:Choose a sport for betting or a game you’d like to play in the casino.If betting on sports, you’ll need to select a specific match to bet on, identify the type of bet, and choose the most favourable odds (if possible). If playing in the casino, you should first read the rules of the game and select the game parameters (if applicable).Next, specify the bet amount and place your wager on the event or game.If the player accurately predicts the outcome of a sporting event or wins the game, they will be notified accordingly, and the winnings will be automatically credited to the customer’s account.Overview of Sports Betting in 1xBet AppWinning money on bets at the 1xBet betting site is very exciting and profitable. Each sport discipline has its own separate category with a detailed event list and statistics on past matches. You can choose your event for betting from a variety of sports, ranging from well-known popular ones to lesser-known, yet equally intriguing disciplines. Let’s take a closer look at the most popular sporting disciplines among Indians for betting:Cricket is the most popular sport in India, offering numerous betting variations. The game’s lengthy duration makes it ideal for placing Live bets.Kabaddi, a traditional Indian sport, ranks second in popularity. Its unique gameplay merges elements of tag and wrestling.Football, a globally renowned sport, also boasts a significant following in India and provides a wide array of betting opportunities.Tennis and Table Tennis are intriguing for bettors as wagers can be placed on individual athletes or doubles pairs.Horse racing – horse racing has been loved by Indians since ancient times, so the appearance of this discipline in online betting is not surprising.Fighting – the peculiarity of this discipline is the ease of predicting the fight, as you can bet only on the victory or loss of one of your opponents.Virtual sport is a sport where all actions of the players are simulated by a computer program. Cricket, football and tennis are the most interesting virtual sports at 1xBet.Cybersport is a modern sports discipline based on two teams competing in video games (e.g. DOTA 2, League of Legends, CS:GO, FIFA, Call of Duty).
1xBet App Casino
For gambling, the 1xBet App has a separate section called “Casino”. It offers a rich selection of gambling games for all tastes, with different gameplay and excellent graphics. In the Indian branch of the betting site, bettors most often play the following games:Slots -Jungle Secrets, Gonzo’s Quest, Book of Gods, Pandora’s Slots, Juicy Reels.Casual games – billiards and snooker, carambole, pool.Card games Andar Bahar, Baccarat, Blackjack, Poker.Roulette – you can choose an appropriate type of roulette among more than 120 varieties.Lotteries – Keno, Bingo, Lotto.Questions & Answers (FAQ) about 1xBetWhat are the best bonuses for new 1xBet players?The most profitable bonuses for new players are the welcome bonuses. You can get them by entering a promo code at the registration stage. For example, for sports betting the maximum bonus can be as high as Rs 26,000, while for casino betting it's $131 + 150 freespins.Can I bet in Indian rupees?Of course, the national currency is available to all Indian residents not only for sports and casino betting, but also for deposits and withdrawals.Where can I find the 1xBet app for my smartphone?You can download the app for free from the official website (for Android devices) or from the App Store (for iPhone and iPad).How to register in 1xBet app?To register with the beting site as quickly as possible, we recommend choosing the "One-click" registration method. The client will need to specify the country of residence, currency and enter a promo code. That will be the end of registration.Why was I blocked?Your account may have been blocked due to your violation of the 1xBet Terms & Conditions. It is better to contact the support team of the betting site for more details.
Last updated: November 7th, 2023Copyright © handirestaurant.com. All rights reserved        This website uses cookies to improve user experience. By continuing to use the site, you consent to the use of cookies.   OK