Northern Ireland's Biggest Insurance Brokers | AbbeyAutoline
Claims
Branch finder
My Account
08000 66 55 44
Car Insurance
Multi-Car Insurance
Young Driver Insurance
Learner Driver Insurance
Classic Vehicle Insurance
GAP Insurance
Temporary Car Insurance
Home Insurance
Self-Build and Renovation
Landlord Insurance
Business Insurance
Motor Trade
Fleet Insurance
Shops and Offices
Property Owners
Specialisms
Farm Insurance
Tractor Insurance
Agricultural Liability
Smallholder Insurance
Van Insurance
Liability Insurance
Temporary Van Insurance
Haulage Insurance
Private Medical Insurance
Business Private Medical Insurance
Personal Private Medical Insurance
Travel Insurance
Single Trip Cover
Multi-Trip Cover
Winter Sports Insurance
Taxi Insurance
Motorbike Insurance
Claims
Car Claims
Home Claims
Taxi Claims
Farm Claims
Travel Claims
Motorcycle Claims
Business Claims
Van Claims
GAP Claims
Careers
Contact Us
Branches
Knowledge Hub
Why does my tyre pressure warning light come on in the snow?
January Weekend Guide | Cheap and Cheerful
New year, new…ways to be healthier at work
Driving in snow safely
The ultimate MOT guide
Slurry spreading Northern Ireland – mixing slurry safely
What is Tik Tok and why should parents care?
Pre-Calving prep
Preparing for lambing season
Tips to a healthier, greener home
Home Insurance explained
Farmers | Coronavirus advice
Keeping food for longer in lockdown
Family activities to keep the kids entertained
Gardening – the new therapy!
Supporting our local community
Time to zone out and sort that garden!
How to estimate your home contents value?
Farming heroes of Covid-19
What Is No-Claims Discount And How Does It Work?
It’s all about camping this summer!
Top tips for classic car care
Are we there yet? How to stay sane!
Two Northern Ireland Insurance Firms Unite as AbbeyAutoline
The Covid-19 has forced livestock marts to rethink how they buy and sell
Will working from home affect my insurance?
Everything you need to know about insuring electric cars
Top home insurance tips for first time buyers
Which Smart Home Devices Should You Get To Know?
AbbeyAutoline extends partnership with Ulster Rugby
The peace of mind the right insurance cover brings
Spring Gardening Inspiration
Insuring against turbulent times for farmers
AbbeyAutoline Seeks New Talent
Spring Clean Your Finances
5 Egg-cellent Lockdown Easter Activities at Home
International Driving Permits and Insurance – what you need to know
A growing appetite for the re-opening of our hospitality sector
North West 200 Week
Five Unforgettable Motorbike Routes across Northern Ireland
Home Insurance on a New Build House
Learner Driver Insurance
Understanding Landlord Insurance - do I really need it?
Our guide to Commercial Van Insurance
Small business insurance - what is covered?
Professional Indemnity vs Directors and Officers Insurance
What is Young Driver Insurance and why can it be so expensive?
Is your farm insured properly for the snow?
Travelling abroad this Winter...is insurance on your checklist?
A dog’s dinner – the dangers of Christmas foods
Winter is coming.
Beware of cyber scams this Christmas
Christmassy drinks anyone? We have our top 5!
Escape of water and burst pipes, what you need to know this Winter
Brexit | Green Cards
Helpful hacks to help save money this Christmas
Feel like you’re spending too much on fuel? Read this!
The best driving albums and best driving songs of all time
Protect your farm against rural crime
Handling livestock safely
How to get the best travel insurance deal
Travel insurance secrets
What type of tourist are you?
Add travel insurance to your holiday essentials
Your holiday checklist - does it include home insurance?
In dire need of a digital detox?
Not using your car? You need a SORN!
How to stay safe driving in high wind and stormy weather
How to prepare your farm for Winter weather
Tips to keep kids safe now school is out
Sheep shearing best practice
7 things to keep you sane in isolation
6 ways to keep the kids entertained this Easter
Why does my car insurance quote keep changing?
Fact Vs Fiction | Insurance car myths
Top 10 most surprisingly cheap and expensive cars to insure
Are electric cars cheaper to insure than petrol or diesel?
What are the most expensive insurance claims ever made?
The top 10 most expensive athlete insurance policies of all time
11  family staycations to experience this Summer
Are you a convicted driver struggling to get car insurance?
Essential tips for night driving
Everything you need to know as a named driver
Is your UK travel insurance valid when flying from Dublin Airport?
Top causes of car breakdowns
What happens when someone damages your parked car?
What to do if you are involved in a car accident
What to do when you run out of fuel
Getting ready for sheep breeding season
Commuters with ‘rail’ concerns getting back in the driving seat
Insurance brokers can tailor policies to fit your needs like a glove
Drive towards electric vehicles coming down the road fast
How to ‘insure’ Halloween doesn’t cause a financial fright
Protect yourself and your livelihood
Celebrating diversity in the workplace at AbbeyAutoline
New or used car insurance – which is cheaper?
Everything you need to know about farm insurance
Home insurance during renovations – what you need to know
I need tractor insurance - how can I get it?
Everything you need to know about temporary van insurance
Temporary Car Insurance Explained
GAP Insurance - do I really need it?
Classic Car Insurance Explained
Commercial Liability Insurance
What is fleet insurance and what does it cover?
How can Cyber Insurance protect my devices?
How does agricultural insurance work?
Do I need taxi insurance for a part-time job?
I’m working from home - does this affect my home insurance policy?
What is SME insurance and how do I get it for my business?
What motorcycle insurance do I need?
Where to get the most affordable young driver insurance?
Everything you need to know about hospitality insurance.
How does classic car insurance work?
AbbeyAutoline Marks 50th Year In Business
AbbeyAutoline Long Service Awards 2024
AbbeyAutoline becomes Northern Ireland’s  First JAM Card Friendly Insurance Broker
Ulster Rugby STH £50 Offer T&Cs
08000 66 55 44
Insurance Products
Car Insurance >
Multi-Car Insurance >
Young Driver Insurance >
Learner Driver Insurance >
Classic Vehicle Insurance >
GAP Insurance >
Temporary Car Insurance >
Business Insurance >
Motor Trade >
Fleet Insurance >
Shops and Offices >
Property Owners >
Specialisms >
Home Insurance >
Self-Build and Renovation >
Landlord Insurance >
Motorcycle Insurance >
Farm Insurance >
Tractor Insurance >
Agricultural Liability >
Smallholder Insurance >
Travel Insurance >
Single Trip Cover >
Multi-Trip Cover >
Winter Sports Insurance >
Van Insurance >
Liability Insurance >
Temporary Van Insurance >
Taxi Insurance >
Knowledge Hub >
Driving >
Living >
Farming >
Travelling >
Company News >
Car
Home
Van
Business
Farm
Haulage
Other Insurance
Car insurance
Searching for the right car insurance can be complicated. So we’re here to make your life easier. Whatever your car’s shape or size, our team of experts are here to help you drive with confidence under the right cover.
Car Insurance >
Multi-Car Insurance >
GAP Insurance >
Classic Vehicle Insurance >
Young Driver Insurance >
Learner Driver Insurance >
Temporary Car Insurance >
Get a quote
Retrieve a quote
08000 66 55 44
Home insurance
Finding the right insurance to protect your property and all its belongings is often a difficult process. That’s why we’re here to find you a policy tailored to your home, giving you extra assurance in your insurance. Whether you’re a homeowner, landlord, or building a property, we can help you with the right insurance to keep your house a home.
Self-Build and Renovation >
Landlord Insurance >
Get a quote
Retrieve a quote
08000 66 55 44
Van insurance
On the lookout for the right van insurance? Our expert team will find the right insurance to have you covered. Whether you’re a sole trader or have a fleet of vans, we work with a range of insurers to provide you with the right cover to keep you and your van on the road.
Liability Insurance >
Temporary Van Insurance >
Get a quote
Retrieve a quote
08000 66 55 44
Business insurance
Searching for a business insurance deal? From home offices to large enterprises, we understand that every business is different. That’s why our expert team works hard to find the right policies and protection for your specific business needs.
Motor Trade >
Fleet Insurance >
Shops and Offices >
Property Owners >
Specialisms >
Arrange a callback
08000 66 55 44
Farm insurance
We understand the constant demands of farming, so we’re here to make one thing much easier. No matter the size, we work with you on a personal level to protect your livelihood and help find the most competitive cover that your farm needs.
Tractor Insurance >
Agricultural Liability >
Smallholder Insurance >
Arrange a callback
08000 66 55 44
Haulage insurance
Protect your haulage business with tailored insurance from AbbeyAutoline. From goods in transit to public liability, we’ve got you covered.
Haulage Insurance >
Arrange a callback
08000 66 55 44
Other Insurance
Secure fast access to top-quality healthcare with our Private Medical Insurance for individuals, families, and businesses. Tailored to your needs, our plans offer peace of mind, reduced waiting times, and flexibility for a healthier future.
Private Medical Insurance >
Travel Insurance >
Taxi Insurance >
Motorbike Insurance >
Claims >
08000 66 55 44
Closex
AbbeyAutoline has completed the aquisition of family-owned brokerage, BMG Insurance. Please close this window to access the AbbeyAutoline website where you can find information about our products. If you would like to contact us directly please call us on 08000 66 55 44.
Business Insurance
Protecting Northern Ireland businesses big and small
Arrange a callback
08000 66 55 44
Your Quote
What would you like to insure?
Car
Get a quote
Retrieve a quote
Home
Get a quote
Retrieve a quote
Van
Get a Quote
08000 66 55 44
Business
Arrange a callback
08000 66 55 44
Farming
Haulage
Travel
Motorcycle
Taxi
Why choose us?
We’re Local
With 15 branches province wide, we’re never too far away when you need us most.
We’re Connected
We partner with a network of insurers to provide you the right cover suited to your needs.
We’re Competitive
We take on the stress out of searching the market, saving you time and money.
With over 50 years’ experience, we are true experts in our field which is why when we say we will find you our best deal possible, it’s because we are determined to do so, like we do for thousands of customers every single day.
Unlike price comparison sites, we are here to help and guide you through each step of the insurance process. If you are unsure of something, you don’t have to worry as our expert team are always on hand to explain all the jargon to you.  We will take the time to talk you through your quote options and if you do need to make a claim, our dedicated claims team will be there to offer you a reassuring helping hand when you need it most.
Don’t just take our word for it
Here’s what our customers are saying about AbbeyAutoline
I recently renewed my car insurance with AbbeyAutoline. Karen was so friendly and professional, she almost made it a pleasure for me to part company with my money!
Richard, Newtownards
I can’t thank Emma at AbbeyAutoline enough for taking great care of my insurance requirements. Emma really knows her stuff and took the time to walk me through every step of the process to ensure that we had adequate cover.
Sasha, Belfast
A very straightforward and uncomplicated process. The staff were knowledgeable and helped get me the best deal possible for my home and car insurance. Great to be able to talk to a person and get a clear picture of what we needed, would highly recommend.
B. Hamill, Belfast
Latest from the Knowledge Hub
AbbeyAutoline becomes Northern Ireland’s  First JAM Card Friendly Insurance Broker
AbbeyAutoline Long Service Awards 2024
AbbeyAutoline completes third major acquisition of 2024
AbbeyAutoline continues major expansion plan with acquisition of family-owned Down Insurances
Need to speak with us? 08000 66 55 44
PRODUCTS
Car Insurance
GAP Insurance
Home Insurance
Travel Insurance
Business Insurance
Farm Insurance
Van Insurance
Motorbike Insurance
Taxi Insurance
COMPANY
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Social Media Policy
Careers
Commercial Terms of Business
Personal Terms of Business
Advertising Claims
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
SUPPORT
Knowledge Hub
Contact Us
Branches
Claims
Sitemap
©AbbeyAutoline. Part of the Prestige Insurance Holdings Group, AbbeyAutoline is a trading name of Abbey Insurance Brokers Limited who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority – 434752. Registered in Northern Ireland (NI053754) 10 Governors Place, Carrickfergus, Co.Antrim, BT38 7BN.
Home