Hoos IT-Solutions
IT ▪ Consulting ▪ Services
IT ▪ Sales ▪ Training
About us
Hoos IT-Solutions
IT Sales TrainingTHAT WORKS.
Hoos IT-Solutions inspire salespeoplewith their tailor-made training concepts.
Realize your benefit
Hoos IT-Solutions
CONSULTINGAND IT SERVICESTHAT INSPIRE.
Hoos IT-Solutions create cost-effective and user-friendly IT working environments.
Discover your added value
Hoos IT-Solutions
Successful in 26 countries. Since 2003.
Hoos IT-Solutions optimize IT systemsand increase sales figures.
Company profile
The two central missions of our daily work are improving IT systems and enhancing the performance of our customers in sales and support with our tailor-made training solutions. Nationally and internationally.
In the IT ▪ Consulting ▪ Services sector, we focus on modern, digital work and the optimization of business processes. Our aim is to create not only a cost-efficient but also a user-friendly IT working environment for our customers in which they simply feel comfortable at the new "Modern Workplace". Our range of services extends from consulting, planning, implementation and support of IT infrastructure and IT systems in the cloud.
In the IT ▪ Sales ▪ Training sector, we focus on increasing sales figures as well as enhancing the quality of IT support, and we get salespeople enthusiastic about the products and services of our customers. Here, we combine our expertise in the IT consulting sector as well as the long-term experience of our multilingual trainers in order to develop the perfect, successful training solutions for our customers on the basis of specified targets. Our services range from the analysis, design, realization, and evaluation of training courses, to lectures and workshops on our core specialist areas as well as technical support for our customers’ participation in trade fairs.
Take advantage of our many years of experience and discover what we can do for you on the following pages. We look forward to your inquiry!
References
Here is a selection of our references.Mouse over a logo to see the business area of the reference.Click on a logo to go to the corresponding area.
Address
Hoos IT-Solutions
Heinrich-Bingemer-Weg 68
60388 Frankfurt am Main
+49 (6109) 69787-0
Hoos IT-Solutions
Bühlstrasse 72
78112 St. Georgen im Schwarzwald
+49 (7724) 58645-0
Helpdesk
Teams Chat with Helpdesk
helpdesk@ihoos.de
+49 (6109) 69787-22
+49 (7724) 58645-22
CONTACT
Teams Chat with Hoos IT-Solutions
mail@ihoos.de
Remote Support
Quick Support
Detected: Windows
Customer area
Login
English
Hoos IT-Solutions company profile
Disclaimer
Imprint