Find a Career at Huntington Bank - Learn & Apply | Huntington
Skip to Main Content
About
Culture & Community
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
What We Offer
Benefits
Learning & Development
Career Areas
Banking
Technology
Customer Solution Center
Corporate
Early Careers
Events
Location Search
Job Alerts
Talent Network
Welcome to careers at Huntington
Kena helps customers
feel welcome.
She’s their comfort zone.
Be a Banker
Learn about Corporate Jobs
Bindu serves at her branch
and in the community.
What a team player.
Be a Banker
Learn about Banking Jobs
Aundria strives to support
her colleagues every day.
That’s leading with purpose.
Be a Banker
Learn about Customer Solutions Jobs
Keyword
Location
Remote Jobs
Search Jobs
<span>See all jobs</span>
Welcome to careers at Huntington.
Be a part of how we look out for people.
It’s obvious you’re the kind of person who’s going places, and Huntington is going
places, too. It seems we naturally attract people who share our can-do attitude, service heart,
and forward-thinking perspective. We care about the community and the people on our team.
We’re confident and excited about how we can succeed together. We’d love to have you join us.
Find Jobs by Location
Our impact is extensive.
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Nasdaq: HBAN) is a $204 billion asset regional bank holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Founded in 1866, The Huntington National Bank and its affiliates provide consumers, small and middle‐market businesses, corporations, municipalities, and other organizations with a comprehensive suite of banking, payments, wealth management, and risk management products and services. Huntington operates 978 branches in 12 states, with certain businesses operating in extended geographies. Visit Huntington.com for more information.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Learn about our commitment to a diverse and inclusive work environment and how it benefits us all.
Learn More
Banking
Opportunities in:
Branch Banking and Financial Advising, Portfolio Management, Credit Analysis & More
Learn More and Search Jobs
Technology
Opportunities in:
IT, Digital, Security, Data & Analytics
Learn More and Search Jobs
Customer Solutions
Opportunities in:
Customer Support
Learn More and Search Jobs
Corporate
Opportunities in:
Operations, Human Resources, Legal, Marketing & more
Learn More and Search Jobs
Join our talent network and receive job alerts
Sign Up Now
Huntington is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer and is committed to providing equal employment opportunities for all regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status, gender identity and expression, genetic information, or any other basis protected by local, state, or federal law.
We endeavor to make this site accessible to any and all users. If you would like to contact us regarding the accessibility of this site or if you require a reasonable accommodation to apply for a job or to perform the essential function of the job, please send an email to HuntingtonCareers@Huntington.com
EEO is the Law
Tobacco Policy (PDF)
EEO is the Law Poster Supplement
Reasonable Accommodations
Privacy Policies
Huntington
CA Data Privacy Rights
Investment, Insurance and Non-deposit Trust products are: NOT A DEPOSIT • NOT FDIC INSURED • NOT GUARANTEED BY THE BANK • NOT INSURED BY ANY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AGENCY • MAY LOSE VALUE
The Huntington National Bank is an Equal Housing Lender and Member FDIC. ®, Huntington®, Huntington. Welcome.® and Huntington Heads Up® are federally registered service marks of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated. © 2025 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.
Third-party product, service, and business names are trademarks and/or service marks of their respective owners.
Privacy Policy