Netflix
Sign In
Unlimited movies, TV shows, and more.
Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime.
Ready to watch? Enter your email to create or restart your membership.
Email address
Get Started
Enjoy on your TV.
Watch on Smart TVs, Playstation, Xbox, Chromecast, Apple TV, Blu-ray players, and more.
Download your shows to watch offline.
Save your favorites easily and always have something to watch.
Stranger Things
Downloading...
Watch everywhere.
Stream unlimited movies and TV shows on your phone, tablet, laptop, and TV without paying more.
Frequently Asked Questions
What the Netflix?
Netflix is a streaming service that offers a wide variety of award-winning TV shows, movies, anime, documentaries, and more on thousands of internet-connected devices.
You can watch as much as you want, whenever you want without a single commercial – all for one low monthly price. There's always something new to discover and new TV shows and movies are added every week!
How much does Netflix cost?
Watch Netflix on your smartphone, tablet, Smart TV, laptop, or streaming device, all for one fixed monthly fee. Plans range from 180,000 ₫ to 260,000 ₫ a month. No extra costs, no contracts.
Where can I watch?
Watch anywhere, anytime, on an unlimited number of devices. Sign in with your Netflix account to watch instantly on the web at netflix.com from your personal computer or on any internet-connected device that offers the Netflix app, including smart TVs, smartphones, tablets, streaming media players and game consoles.
You can also download your favorite shows with the iOS, Android, or Windows 10 app. Use downloads to watch while you're on the go and without an internet connection. Take Netflix with you anywhere.
How do I cancel?
Netflix is flexible. There are no pesky contracts and no commitments. You can easily cancel your account online in two clicks. There are no cancellation fees – start or stop your account anytime.
What can I watch on Netflix?
Netflix has an extensive library of feature films, documentaries, TV shows, anime, award-winning Netflix originals, and more. Watch as much as you want, anytime you want.
Ready to watch? Enter your email to create or restart your membership.
Email address
Get Started
Questions? Contact us.
FAQ
Help Center
Account
Media Center
Investor Relations
Jobs
Ways to Watch
Terms of Use
Privacy
Cookie Preferences
Corporate Information
Contact Us
Speed Test
Legal Notices
Netflix Originals
Tiếng Việt
English
Netflix Vietnam