Home | Tecnojest srl
Conta​​​​​​ct Us
About Us
Downloads
Sign in
Conta​​​​​​ct Us
News
Virtual office desk
The desk for remote branch office
Learn More
MoViDa
The street light for noise detection
Learn More
Previous
Next
Innovative,
visionary
and digital
Use Cases
Industry
Data Center
BMS Domotic
Hydro
Smart City
Bank
We are facing an Industry 5.0 that combines the power of advanced automation with human intelligence, opening the door to an era of unprecedented manufacturing, where innovation and sustainability lead the way to the future".
Industry 4.0 is transforming the way we produce, connecting machines, information and people, opening up new frontiers of efficiency, competitiveness and possibilities.
Data center solutions are a set of technologies, services, and strategies designed to improve data center efficiency, reliability, and performance.
These solutions are essential to ensure optimal operation of data centers, which are at the heart of data storage and processing operations for many businesses and organizations.
BMS the term "BMS" in home automation stands for "Building Management System" or "Building Automation System."
It is a centralized or distributed system that intelligently controls and manages various aspects of building automation, such as air conditioning, lighting, security, energy control, and other devices and systems within a building or complex of buildings.
Here are some of the main functions and features of a home automation BMS: Energy management; air conditioning control; Lighting; Safety; Water management; Control of electrical appliances; Monitoring and reporting; Mobile Applications & Remote Control.
Our technologies for hydrological industries are solutions and tools used for water management, water monitoring, environmental protection, and hydropower generation.
These technologies play a key role in the sustainable management of water resources and climate change mitigation.
Here are some of the technologies relevant to hydrological industries: Hydrological Sensors and Monitoring Instruments: These instruments measure critical parameters such as water level, water quality, flow, temperature, and GIS (Geographic Information Systems) technologies and specialized software enable modeling, forecasting, and management of water resources in a specific area.
Smart Cities are becoming increasingly important in the context of increasing urbanization, as they seek to address challenges related to population growth, resource efficiency, and quality of life in urban centers.
Internet of Things (IoT): Connecting devices and sensors throughout the city allows for real-time data collection to monitor and manage various aspects, such as traffic, air quality, and public lighting.
Smart sensors: Environmental, traffic, and sound detection sensors monitor data in real-time, providing important information to optimize resource management. Advanced communication networks: High-speed networks, such as 5G, make it possible to transmit data in real-time and connect IoT objects.
The project is located within a system called O2IP (office Over IP) which, by applying the basics of the Internet Of Thing (IoT) system and Unified Communications (UC) is able to put in place "Communication" people and things in a simple and intelligent way.
​
BCC customers were provided with the Virtual office desk (VOD) solution: an innovative digital branch, which can be installed in any context to temporary and itinerant offices, even in the absence of internal staff service.
The solution, totally flexible and scalable even later,
allows for quick and easy installation to make immediately intelligent and manageable all environments, favoring a Rapid payback of investment, thanks to Industry 4.0.
To be successful your content needs to be useful to your readers.
Start with the customer – find out what they want and give it to them.
Verticals
IoT
Tecnojest offers a wide range of gateways and data-processing units (Fog devices) that shine for their integration capabilities and low power consumption. We also provide sensors and terminals as  a complement to the final solution.
Learn More
VoiP & UC
Our unified communications (UC) solution includes both servers and terminals (desk phones) to enable VoiP and analog-based communication within contact centers, banks and others.
Learn More
Lighting & Energy
Our portfolio features edge computing devices embedded in a light. Besides lighting, our offer focus also on energy monitoring & management, supported by a data-analysis cloud platform.
Learn More
Where We Are
Head-quartered in the sunny city of Pescara, on the Italian East coast, Tecnojest has also a branch office in Milan and commercial representative within the region of Rome.
Come and visit our R&D Team in Pescara and let's discuss your next project!
Contact Us
Home
•
About Us
•
Downloads
•
Contact Us
•
Cookies List
​
Viale Europa, 128  •  Spoltore (PE) 65010  •  Italy •  P.IVA/C.F.:01635460684
​+39 (085)4450011 ​​
​
​info@tecnojest.com   ​​Copyright © Tecnojest Srl
​
Your privacy is our priority
Allow the use of cookies from this website on this browser?
We use cookies to provide improved experience on this website. You can learn more about our cookies and how we use them in our  cookie policy page:
https://www.tecnojest.com/cookie-policy
.
Allow all cookies
Only allow essential cookies
Social Media