Professional Commercial Photography Service in MD | Jessica Patterson Photography
Home
Our Services
Portfolio
Commercial Real Estate
Construction Documentation
Portrait & Editorial Photography
About Us
Testimonials
Contact Us
Our Services
Offering Professional Photography Services Based In Columbia, MD
Commercial Real Estate
Our studio provides visual marketing services for builders, designers, architects, developers and property management teams. All services are quoted specific to your needs. Please email for more information.
Book Commissions and Editorial Imagery
With 17 years of experience providing photography to a variety of magazines and authors, we love collaborating to bring your creative vision to life. Use the contact form to let us know how we can help.
Business Portraits
Your image is your brand; stop using head-shots from 20 years ago and let’s create something unique to your personality and profession. Business Portraits can be done on location or in studio.
Construction Documentation
From ground-breaking to ribbon cutting, construction documentation can be a valuable tool for builders and developers to ensure the project is being completed in a timely manner without having to do site visits weekly or monthly.
Portfolio
Commercial Real Estate Photography
Portrait and Editorial Photography
Construction Documentation Photography
Commercial Product Photography
About Us
Jessica Patterson Stoddard
Photographer/Owner
Jessica Patterson Photography is located in Columbia, MD and services the D.M.V region for real estate, interiors, architectural photography as well as portrait and editorial work. Outside of providing exceptional photography to clients I enjoy hiking, gardening, beekeeping and astrophotography. Taking our four kids to the river is a highlight of every summer, as is vacationing in the Outer Banks, and eating quintessential Maryland foods. (blue crabs, baby!). A firepit and loved ones is the ideal night for me.
Customer Testimonials
The Anthony Corrao Team Real Estate Photography Client
Jessica Patterson Photography has completed multiple photography shoots for me and my real estate team over the last 3 years. This included team shots with a lake background and woods settings and individual agent head shots as well as real estate photography and videography of our properties listed for sale. Jessica was highly professional and personal, on time, extremely creative and strived for perfection in every photo. We have referred her several times and all reported the same feedback regarding her degree of professionalism. I highly refer her for all your photography needs.
Rachelle Barimany, CFO Dominion Jewelers, Commercial Photography Client
Jessica is knowledgeable, hardworking and pleasant to work with. We’ve had the occasion to work together on a couple projects and every time she exceeds expectations and delivery a fantastic product.
Mike Marsden Business Portraiture Client
Responsive, professional, and creative best describes my experience with Jessica Patterson. My requirements included business headshots, family photos, and wall art. We shot multiple locations and hundreds of images for which Jessica selected the best images, making our final picks easy and efficient. I appreciated the ease of the process and most importantly the high-quality product she delivers.
Lauren P. Book Commissions Client
Jessica and I have been friends for years, but when we decided to begin a polo book together, I was a bit nervous. She'd never been to a polo match before, but the first time I brought her out, after only a few minutes she said, "This completely changes my preconceived notions about polo." I knew right then that she got it. The entire drive behind this book is to educate the everyday polo player; the people out there that love the sport and just want to learn everything they can about it. It's not about the pomp and circumstance, the royalty, Ralph Lauren or big hats. It's about a great group of people, getting together to have a fun Saturday afternoon with horses and mallets and the occasional breakfast beer. Since then we've done a number of shoots together and each one just gets better. Working with Jessica is an absolute dream and I'm excited and doing this project and many more with her!
Contact Us
Contact Us
Jessica Patterson Stoddard Columbia, MD 240.626.4119
What is 5+1?
Are you ready to elevate your commercial property or brand? The studio is accepting new clients in select areas, and we invite you to reach out today!
Jessica Patterson Photography
© 2023. All Rights Reserved.
error: Content is protected !!