ACE MULTIFREIGHT LOGISTICS PVT. LTD. – Your Logistics Partner for Life
sales@acemultifreight.com
+ 91 022 49643420
Office:  314, 3rd Floor, Lok Center Corporate Park, Marol Maroshi Road, Andheri East,
Home
About Us
The Leadership
Products & Services
Careers
Contact Us
India’s most preferable
Logistics services provider
Since 10 Years
Contact Us
WE MANAGE
Contact Us
DANGEROUS GOODS
"Lead and inspire people.  Don’t try to manage and manipulate people. Inventories can be
managed but people must be led."
- Late Shri.  Rajesh Khot
Air Freight Booking
Get Affordable Air Freight Booking for your shipments.
Book Now
Ocean Freight Booking
Cost-Effective logistics via ocean route globally
Book Now
Local Transports Booking
We take care of your cargo with reasonable rate.
Book Now
Customized Projects
We do take & manage customized bulk project.
Book Now
10
1
%
Customer Satisfaction
Years in excellent services in logistics
About Us
Welcome To ACE Multifreight Logistics
The Company, registered in Mumbai, has made a mark for itself, all thanks to the superior quality of its services. It has expanded its activities to other areas of logistics and supply chain solutions also.
Read More
Our Services
Assuring You The Best Quality Services
Air Freight
AML airfreight is the fast, flexible way to move your goods. Whatever you want to move, and wherever you want to move it, we can help. With a global Agents network of dedicated air specialists, our airfreight services cover almost every location in the world.
Read More
Ocean Freight
AML ocean freight gives you wide coverage, more sailings, better rates, and more flexible closing times. We work with all major shipping carriers:
- Less than container load (LCL)
- Full container load (FCL)
Whatever you’re shipping, your goods are in safe hands – right up to...
Read More
Transport
AML Inland Haulage is the most efficient way to get your goods to and from the port. Often, the process can be extremely unwieldy and can leave you juggling several contact points at once. But we aim to be a one-stop shop for your all transport needs.
Read More
Dangerous Goods
As a company, we are strongly committed to safety. We verify all bookings information, and we inspect containers if we deem it necessary, to ensure the highest safety standard. We want our customers to be confident that we strive to keep lives, ..
Read More
Customs Clearence
AML Customs Clearance is all about simplicity. Customs rules and processes can be confusing but our goal is make clearance as easy as possible for you. we assure best services in Indian customs clearance at competitive rates.
Read More
Customised Project
We offer a variety of project cargo services, covering a variety of industries. We can cover break bulk, heavy lift, high value cargo and can use RoRo and LoLo vessels where possible to ensure your cargo is moved safely and securely.
Read More
Courses
OURVALUES
Responsibility
We must continue to be responsible towards our own work, our
teams and of that area of the organization we are responsible for and also towards the country, community, customers, partners and environment.
Integrity
We must conduct our business fairly, with honesty and transparency.
Everything we do must stand the test of public scrutiny.
Teamwork
We must work cohesively with our colleagues across the group and
with our customers and partners around the world, building strong relationships based on tolerance, understanding and mutual cooperation.
Excellence
We must constantly strive to achieve the highest possible standards in
our day-to-day work and in the quality of the goods and services we provide.
Vision
“To match the global service standard by adopting change management practices, investment in talent & technology and innovating products & services. ”
Mission
“To be among the top ten Air freight, shipping
& transportation logistics Company in India by adoption of the best Industry practices ”
Get in touch
Don’t hesitate to contact with us for inquires!
Choose services*AIR FREIGHTOCEAN FREIGHTLOCAL TRANSPORTATIONDANGEROUS GOODSCUSTOMS CLEARANCECUSTOMISED PROJECT
Send a Inquiry
We are Ace Multifreight Logistics Pvt. Ltd.
By really listening to our customers, and having a complete understanding of their requirements, we can build for them a strong, stable, and long term solution, not just a service that works today but will continue to work for the future.
Corporate Office
314, 3rd Floor, Lok Center Corporate Park,
Marol Maroshi Road, Andheri East,
Mumbai - 400059
+ 91 22 6698 0002/3/4/5
+91 88980 16811
+91 98331 50873
Follow us on:
Facebook
Instagram
Linkedin
Pinterest
Twitter
2019 © All rights reserved
2025
Submit
×
X