Australian Community Industry Alliance acia Skip to main contentSign In
Sign Out
HomeAbout UsACIS Provider RegisterACIS CertificationCertified Auditing BodiesACIS 5.0 for CAB'sQuality PortalMoreMembershipEducationTraining & EventsSelf-Paced TrainingMembers Portal
Featured News
New Educational Sessions Available Now
Join us! ACIA has some exciting new training opportunities available.Back by popular demand, our Clinical Governance educational session - and more!!
UPCOMING TRAINING
FLYERS
Check out our new Flyers
ACIA's flyers showcase the essential support we provide for community care service providers. Download them today and see how we’re strengthening the sector and helping providers deliver quality care.
New Opportunity for Providers
To celebrate and promote ACIS-certified members who demonstrate best practice in their audits, we invite providers to submit a short case study showcasing how these best practice elements enhance outcomes for participants.
LEARN MORE
Empowering Community Care Providers to Better Support Australians
As a peak body for Community Service providers across Australia, the Australian Community Industry Alliance (ACIA) believes every individual requiring community support deserves access to high-quality services. Founded by experienced community care professionals, we value the role providers play in the lives of people with traumatic injuries and disabilities. By maintaining quality standards and providing cost-effective learning and development opportunities, we help providers offer high-quality services that contribute to a thriving community care industry.
Training and Events
Self-paced Training
ACIA Membership
ACIS Certification
Become an ACIA member today, begin your ACIS certification journey, and advance your community care practice with high-quality education and training opportunities.
BECOME A MEMBER
ACIA MEMBERSHIP FLYER
BECOME ACIS CERTIFIED
BECOME ACIS CERTIFIED FLYER
SELF-PACED TRAINING
CHOOSE AN ACIS CERTIFIED PROVIDER
A safety net for vulnerable Australians
Throughout Australia, millions of people require community care and support. However, only a fraction are covered by aged care or National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) Practice Standards, leaving many people at risk of receiving unsafe, ineffective, or unethical support. ACIA believes that no matter who you are, you deserve access to high-quality community care if, and when, you need it. ACIA’s standards are a safety net that ensures Australians living with injury or disability, and who are not covered by NDIS or aged care standards, can access ACIS certified providers who offer best-practice, high-quality care.
Setting the standard for collaborative, high-quality community care services
ACIA’s mission is to enhance the well-being of individuals receiving community support and empower providers to offer the highest-quality care. We do this by supporting our providers with high-quality practice standards and development opportunities that allow them to advance their skills and competencies to better support vulnerable Australians. By collaborating with community care service providers, insurers, case managers, and government agencies, we drive continuous improvement throughout the sector and help providers meet the diverse support needs and aspirations of Australians.
Empowering ​providersWe value community care providers and the vital contribution they make towards supporting vulnerable Australians.
Supporting the communityWe believe everyone requiring community support deserves access to high-quality services that meet their diverse needs and aspirations.
Developing high-quality practicesWe develop best practice standards so our providers can deliver high-quality support services that cater to diverse Australians.
Person-centred ​careWe deliver training to organisations that promotes person-centred care, and focuses on meeting people's unique needs and preferences.
Industry-wide collaborationWe collaborate with industry to drive improvement and enhance the quality of community support services.
Head Office: Level 5, Nexus Norwest 4 Columbia Court, Norwest NSW 2153 (ACN 153 423 799)
Australian Community Industry Alliance Ltd | LinkedIn | Contact Us | Feedback & Complaints | Charity Status || Privacy Policy | Constitution (Objects) | Code of Conduct | Quality of Service Delivery and Requirements of Members |
acia