Login in your account to continue on this page...
The list below is for encyclopedia entries that describe and pertain to events happening on a current basis.
facebook
Log In
or
Create New Account
Forgot Password?
English (US)
Francais (France)
Portugues (Brasil)
Italiano
Espanol
中文(简体)
Deutsch
+
About · Help · More
Facebook  Inc.
Main subject classifications
Wikipedia's main navigation subsystems (overviews, outlines, lists, portals, glossaries, categories, and indices) are each divided into the following subject classifications:
Culture – encompasses the social behavior and norms found in human societies, as well as the knowledge, beliefs, arts, laws, customs, capabilities and habits of the individuals in these groups.
Geography – field of science devoted to the study of the lands, features, inhabitants, and phenomena of the Earth and planets.
Health – state of physical, mental and social well-being.
History – the past as it is described in written documents, and the study thereof.
Human activities – the various activities done by people. For instance, it includes leisure, entertainment, industry, recreation, war, and exercise.
Mathematics – the study of topics such as quantity (numbers), structure, space, and change. It evolved through the use of abstraction and logical reasoning, from counting, calculation, measurement, and the systematic study of the shapes and motions of physical objects.
Natural science – branch of science concerned with the description, prediction, and understanding of natural phenomena, based on empirical evidence from observation and experimentation.
People – plurality of persons considered as a whole, as is the case with an ethnic group or nation.
Philosophy – study of general and fundamental questions about existence, knowledge, values, reason, mind, and language.
Reference works – compendiums of information, usually of a specific type, compiled in a book for ease of reference. That is, the information is intended to be quickly found when needed.
Religions – social-cultural systems of designated behaviors and practices, morals, worldviews, texts, sanctified places, prophecies, ethics, or organizations, that relates humanity to supernatural, transcendental, or spiritual elements.
Society – group of individuals involved in persistent social interaction, or a large social group sharing the same geographical or social territory, typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Societies are characterized by patterns of relationships (social relations) between individuals who share a distinctive culture and institutions; a given society may be described as the sum/total of such relationships among its constituent of members.
Technology – the sum of techniques, skills, methods, and processes used in the production of goods or services or in the accomplishment of objectives, such as scientific investigation.
Vital articles
Main page: Wikipedia:Vital articles
Círculos Concéntricos.svg
Vital articles are lists of subjects for which the English Wikipedia should have corresponding high-quality articles. They serve as centralized watchlists to track the quality status of Wikipedia's most important articles and to give editors guidance on which articles to prioritize for improvement.
Vital articles level 1 – 10 most important articles
Vital articles level 2 – 100 most important articles
Vital articles level 3 – 1,000 most important articles
Vital articles level 4 – 10,000 most important articles
Vital articles level 5 – 50,000 most important articles
Third-party classification systems
Various third-party classification systems have been mapped to Wikipedia articles, which can be accessed from these pages:
Library of Congress Classification
List of Dewey Decimal classes
Figurative system of human knowledge (Encyclopédie)
Propædia (Encyclopædia Britannica)
Tree of knowledge system
Universal Decimal Classification