Strawberry picking summer 2024, SEASON2024 - Alanteen Tila Oy
This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience.
Alanteen Tila Oy and our selected partners use cookies and similar technologies (together “cookies”) that are necessary to present this website, and to ensure you get the best experience of it.
If you consent to it, we will also use cookies for analytics and marketing purposes.
See our Cookie Policy to read more about the cookies we set.
You can withdraw and manage your consent at any time, by clicking “Manage cookies” at the bottom of each website page.
Accept all cookies
Decline all non-necessary cookies
Cookie preferences
Select which cookies you accept
On this site, we always set cookies that are strictly necessary, meaning they are necessary for the site to function properly.
If you consent to it, we will also set other types of cookies. You can provide or withdraw your consent to the different types of cookies using the toggles below. You can change or withdraw your consent at any time, by clicking the link “Manage Cookies”, which is always available at the bottom of the site.
To learn more about what the different types of cookies do, how your data is used when they are set etc, see our Cookie Policy.
Strictly necessary
These cookies are necessary to make the site work properly, and are always set when you visit the site.
Vendors
Teamtailor
Analytics
These cookies collect information to help us understand how the site is being used.
Vendors
Teamtailor
Marketing
These cookies are used to make advertising messages more relevant to you. In some cases, they also deliver additional functions on the site.
Vendors
Meta
Accept these cookies
Decline all non-necessary cookies
Career menu
Jobs
Start
Departments
Locations
People
Employee
Log in
Candidate
Log in to Connect
Homepage
alanteentila.fi
Thanks for applying
We have received your application and we will be reviewing it shortly.
Applied
2
Connect
Stand out from the crowd
Present yourself with a richer profile and stay up-to-date with future opportunities that match your interests.
I have read the Privacy Statement Privacy Policy and agree that the information will be stored and used in accordance with the Privacy Statement.
Career site
by Teamtailor