Alfaa UV - The Water And Air Purification Expert
HomeAbout
About UsTestimonialsNewsroomEvents
Markets
Industrial UV Solutions
PharmaceuticalsFood and BeveragePaint and PaintshopsMicroelectronicsAquacultureRO Plant ManufacturersHotels and Leisure
UVGI Solutions
Ultraviolet Germicidal Irradiation (UVGI) for AHUs and DuctsOperation Theatre DisinfectionConveyer Disinfection System
Municpal UV Solutions
Wastewater ReuseCentralized Drinking WaterCommunity Water Schemes
Commercial Water Purification
Restaurants and Food ServicesSchools and Educational InstitutionsOffice and IT ParksBuilders & DevelopersShopping Malls and Retail
Residential Water Purification
Purifiers for KitchenWhole House Purification
Parts and ServicesBlogContact Us
ALFAA UV - THE WATER AND AIR PURIFICATION EXPERT
Alfaa UV, (Ace Hygiene Products Pvt. Ltd.) is an ISO 9001 certified company. With close to two decades of experience, Alfaa UV is the undisputed leader and exporter of UV purification systems for Water (ranging from 100 LPH to 2,30,000 LPH) and Air (UV for coil cleaning and In-duct purification). Based in Mumbai, Alfaa UV has its own fully integrated manufacturing facility in Talegaon, Maharashtra and a pan India presence with sales and service offices across the country. Alfaa UV systems are also exported to over 15 countries around the world.
Read More
UVGI Air Disinfection Systems
With more than two decades of experience in UV technology, Alfaa UV offers the latest, innovative UVGI solutions for surfaces, upper air, and HVAC applications. Having a safe indoor environment is the need of the hour to ensure the well-being of all. Thus, our advanced UVGI solutions are excellent for mitigating the risk of rapid infections within closed spaces as they help disinfect the air, which helps curb transmission.
UVGI for HVAC applications offered by Alfaa UV includes ULTRACOIL and ULTRADUCT UV air disinfection systems. Alfaa UV’s ULTRACOIL is an eco-friendly way of deep cleaning coils, featuring a unique Parabolic Reflector System that helps remove the bio-films, ensuring clean and safe indoor air. Likewise, Alfaa UV’s ULTRADUCT is installed in the supply or return ducts offering single pass disinfection of airborne bacteria and viruses.
What’s more, Alfaa UV’s new range of disinfecting appliances include STERO-360 UV Sterilizer and STERO-UP Upper-Air UVGI Systems. The STERO-360 UV Sterilizer Machine is a one-stop solution for sanitization and cleaning. It kills more than 99.99% of pathogens, including Coronaviruses. The STERO-UP Upper-Air UVGI Systems, on the other hand, is an advanced engineered upper air purification system that uses potent germicidal UVC irradiation to continuously clean upper air in rooms, reducing airborne transmission of bacteria, viruses, and fungi.
UV and RO Commercial Water Purifiers
Alfaa UV specialises in UV water purification systems for commercial, residential, municipal and industrial use. For commercial purposes, we offer a broad range of water purification systems that are simple to install, easy to use and require minimal maintenance. We offer two types of commercial water purifiers: commercial RO (reverse osmosis) water purifiers and commercial UV (ultraviolet) water purifiers. We understand that providing safe drinking water is one of the foremost requirements that all employers/business owners must adhere to. Thus, our vast range of commercial water purifiers offers complete water purification solutions alongside best-in-class after-sales services.
As a leader in UV water purification systems, we are known across India for our high-quality products and timely service. Our latest high-performing UV and RO water systems are designed to provide clean, pure and safe drinking water, which will help boost the health quotient of your employees/customers. To date, we have installed commercial RO+UV water purifiers for businesses all over India. So, get in touch with us with your requirement, and our team will help you pick a highly efficient commercial water purifier that offers consistent performance at all times.
Read more
Alfaa uv contributes to the following sectors
Industrial UV Solutions
UVGI For HVAC
Muncipal UV Solutions
Commercial Water Purification
Residential Water Purification
More Testimonials
Testimonials
“We are pleased to mention that the Alfa UV water purificatin Systems working satisfactory as per our requirement and the water quality is meeting our highest standard. The after sales service is good and we are satisfied with the quick response”
B. Mahendra (Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd)
More Clients
OUR CLIENTS
and Many More ...
More Blogs
from the blog
Wall Mounted vs Under Sink Water Purifier: Which is best?
Feb 28, 2025
At Alfaa UV, we understand that choosing the right water purifier for .... Read More
The Ultimate Guide to Under-Sink Water Purifiers
Nov 27, 2024
Are you looking for a streamlined, space-saving solution to enjoy clea.... Read More
The Essential Role of Water and Hygiene Standards in the Food and Beverage Industry
Oct 01, 2024
When you think of the food and beverage industry, water might not be t.... Read More
Awards
Alfaa UV has been awarded the prestigious UNESCO Water Digest Award 2014-15 in the category "Best Domestic UV Water Purifier", for its products ewater and SPARKLE UV Water Purifiers.
Mrs Rajul Parikh, Director Sales and Marketing was awarded the prestigious International Award of Merit by the Water Quality Association USA for her contribution to the association’s international mission in India.
ewater 5 stage water purifier from Alfaa UV  has been conferred with the DESIGN EXCELLENCE AWARD 2015 by CMO Asia in Singapore.
Rajul Parikh, co-founder and Director, Alfaa UV was recently honored amongst the “100 Most Influential leaders In Marketing” award ceremony organized by CMO Asia in Mumbai. Ms. Parikh was recognized and appreciated for her contribution to air and water purification using UV Technology.
ASHRAE Acrex Award of Excellence 2016 for "Indoor Air Quality"
Acrex Award of Excellence 2017 For Indoor Air Quality
For Sales   +91-22-66612300
For Service   +91-22-61840909
|
sales@alfauv.com
service@alfauv.com
Alfaa UV
Home
Markets
Products
Applications
Service & Spares
About Us
Blog
Clientele
Testimonials
Service Areas
Contact
Newsroom
Contact Us
1003A Peninsula Towers, Peninsula Corporate Park Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013
For Sales
+91-22-66612300+91-86579 23938
sales@alfauv.com
For Service
+91-22-61840909
service@alfauv.com
Signup for Newsletter!
Copyright © 2021 Alfaa UV. All Rights Reserved   |   Privacy Policy    |   Made by Capsicum
We Support
Make an Enquiry
IndustrialResidentialCommercial
Home
Markets
Residential
Industrial
Commercial
Products
Residential
Industrial
Commercial
Municipal
UVGI For HVAC
Applications
Drinking Water Disinfection
Process Water Disinfection
Wastewater Disinfection
Swimming Pool Disinfection
Toc Reduction
Ozone Destruction
UVGI For HVAC
Newsroom
Testimonials
About Us
Blog
Events
Contact Us
Service Request
Contact
ENQUIRE HERE
Please leave a message for more details and we will get back to you soon.
*Mandatory