Installing Mission Planner — Mission Planner  documentation
Home
Copter
Plane
Rover
Blimp
Sub
AntennaTracker
Mission Planner
APM Planner 2
MAVProxy
Companion Computers
Developer
Downloads
Mission Planner
APM Planner 2
Advanced User Tools
Developer Tools
Firmware
Community
Support Forums
Facebook
Developer Chat (Discord)
Developer Voice (Discord)
Contact us
Getting involved
Commercial Support
Development Team
Stores
About
History
License
Trademark
Acknowledgments
Wiki Editing Guide
Partners Program
Mission Planner
Mission Planner Overview
Installing Mission Planner
Windows Installation
Open Mission Planner
Updating Mission Planner
Mission Planner Advanced Installation
Mission Planner on Android
Mission Planner on Linux
Loading Firmware onto boards with existing ArduPilot firmware
Loading Firmware onto boards without existing ArduPilot firmware (first time only)
Connect Mission Planner to AutoPilot
Mission Planning
Mission Planner Features/Screens
OpenDroneID Panel
Mission Planner Building
Appendix
Individual
Partners
SWAG Shop
Mission Planner
Installing Mission Planner
Edit on GitHub
Installing Mission PlannerÂ¶
Mission Planner was designed for native Windows installation. However, it is possible to use it under Linux (with some occasional issues) and there is a Beta version for Android OS.
Windows InstallationÂ¶
The following instructions show how to install Mission Planner on Windows. These instructions will be suitable for most users.  For advanced users and non-standard installations, instructions are found here:.  A useful video guide for advanced installation of Mission Planner is located here.
Download the latest Mission Planner installer from here
Double click on the downloaded .msi file to run the installer
Follow the instructions to complete the setup process.
The installation utility will automatically install any necessary software drivers.
If you receive a DirectX installation error,
please update your DirectX plug-in from the Windows Download Center.
If you receive the warning pictured below, select Install this driver software anyway to continue.
Mission Planner is normally installed in the C:\Program Files (x86)\Mission Planner folder.
An icon to open the Mission Planner is created according to your instructions during the installation.
Open Mission PlannerÂ¶
Once installation is complete, open Mission Planner by clicking on its system icon.
Then you can either:
Connect Mission Planner to AutoPilot in order to receive telemetry and control the vehicle OR
Load Firmware OR plan autonomous missions.
Note
If ArduPilot firmware is not already installed on the autopilot, see Loading Firmware to boards without existing ArduPilot firmware.
Updating Mission PlannerÂ¶
Mission Planner automatically notifies you about available updates (when it is connected to the Internet).
Please always run the most current version of Mission Planner.
Mission Planner Advanced Installation
Mission Planner on AndroidÂ¶
A version for Android is in development and can be downloaded from the Google Play Store here.
The latest version is also available here. Download to device, and double click on it to install.
Mission Planner on LinuxÂ¶
It is possible to run most Windows based programs on many Linux Distributions using MONO. Mission Planner does run under MONO but will have occasional issues and/or crashes. QGC and MAVProxy are alternatives that run stably in Linux, but if Mission Planner is really desired, you can follow these steps:
Download and install the latest version of MONO from here
Download Mission Planner as a zip file from here and  unzip to a directory.
Change to that directory and execute:
mono MissionPlanner.exe
Previous
Next
Questions, issues, and suggestions about this page can be raised on the forums. Issues and suggestions may be posted on the forums or the Github Issue Tracker.
© Copyright 2024, ArduPilot Dev Team.