Netflix Clone
English
Hindi
Sign In
Unlimited movies, TV shows, and more.
Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime.
Ready to watch? Enter your email to create or restart your membership.
Email Address
Get Started
Enjoy on your TV.
Eatch on smart TVs, PlayStation, Xbox, chromecast, Apple TV, Bluray players and more
Download your programmes to watch offline.
Available on all plans except Basic with adverts.
Stranger Things
Downloading...
Watch everywhere.
Stream unlimited films and TV programmes on your phone, tablet, laptop and TV without paying more.
Create profiles for children..
Send children on adventures with their favourite characters in a space made just for them – free with your membership.
Frequently Asked Questions
What is Netflix?
Netflix is a streaming service that offers a wide variety of award-winning TV shows, movies, anime, documentaries, and more on thousands of internet-connected devices.
You can watch as much as you want, whenever you want without a single commercial – all for one low monthly price. There's always something new to discover and new TV shows and movies are added every week!
How much does Netflix cost?
Watch Netflix on your smartphone, tablet, Smart TV, laptop, or streaming device, all for one fixed monthly fee. Plans range from USD3.99 to USD11.99 a month. No extra costs, no contracts.
How do I cancel?
Watch anywhere, anytime. Sign in with your Netflix account to watch instantly on the web at netflix.com from your personal computer or on any internet-connected device that offers the Netflix app, including smart TVs, smartphones, tablets, streaming media players and game consoles.
You can also download your favorite shows with the iOS, Android, or Windows 10 app. Use downloads to watch while you're on the go and without an internet connection. Take Netflix with you anywhere.
Wher can I watch?
Watch anywhere, anytime. Sign in with your Netflix account to watch instantly on the web at netflix.com from your personal computer or on any internet-connected device that offers the Netflix app, including smart TVs, smartphones, tablets, streaming media players and game consoles.
You can also download your favorite shows with the iOS, Android, or Windows 10 app. Use downloads to watch while you're on the go and without an internet connection. Take Netflix with you anywhere.
What can I watch on Netflix?
Netflix has an extensive library of feature films, documentaries, TV shows, anime, award-winning Netflix originals, and more. Watch as much as you want, anytime you want.
Is Netflix good for kids?
The Netflix Kids experience is included in your membership to give parents control while kids enjoy family-friendly TV shows and movies in their own space.
Kids profiles come with PIN-protected parental controls that let you restrict the maturity rating of content kids can watch and block specific titles you don’t want kids to see.
Ready to watch? Enter your email to create or restart your membership.
Email Address
Get Started
Questions? Contact us.
FAQ
Account
Jobs
Ways to Watch
Cookie Preferences
Speed Test
Only on Netflix
Gift card terms
Media Center
Redeem gift cards
Terms of Use
Corporate Information
Legal Guarantee
Help Center
Investor Relations
Buy gift cards
Privacy
Contact Us
Legal Notices
English
Swedish