Bangor Wholesale Laminates
About Us
Locations
Dealer Resources
Maine Countertops
Solid Surfaces
Artisan Stone
Quartz Surfaces
Solid Surfaces
Laminates
Green Materials
Info Pages
About Us
Locations
Dealer Resources
Bangor Wholesale Laminates
Bangor | 355 Target Industrial Circle | Bangor
, ME 04401 | 800-639-7037 |
Fax: 207-947-3893 | bangor@bwlsurfaces.com
Portland | 460 Riverside Street | Portland
, ME 04103 | 800-639-3690 |
Fax: 207-878-8567 | portland@bwlsurfaces.com
Artisan Stone
Granite
Soapstone
Marble
Quartz
DuPont Corian Quartz Surfacing
Silestone Quartz Surfacing
LG Viatera Quartz Surfacing
HanStone Quartz Surfacing
Solid Surface
DuPont Corian Solid Surfaces
Wilsonart Solid Surfaces
Meganite Solid Surfaces
LivingStone Solid Surfaces
LG Hi-Macs Solid Surface
Laminate
Stock Postform
Wilsonart Laminate
Formica Laminate
Pionite Laminate
Green Materials
Ice Stone Surfaces
PaperStone
Vetrazzo
Richlite Surfacing
Curava
Welcome to Bangor Wholesale Laminates
Bangor Wholesale Laminates is a complete countertop wholesale supplier to kitchen and bath designers
throughout the state of Maine and beyond.Design professionals turn to us because we offer one of
the
widest selections of custom countertops in the state.
–Artisan
Stone–
–Solid
Surfaces–
–Laminates–
–Green
Materials–
How To Have A Great Countertop Install
A Helpful Guide To Purchasing Countertops
What Kind of Stone Is Right For Me?
Narrow Down And Simplify Your Choices
Where Can I View Slabs?
View Slabs in Maine, Massachusetts and Connecticut
Sinks, Faucets and Edge Details
We Offer A Wide Selection of Customization Options
Get To Know The Artisan Group
Artisan Group Is The First Stone Group Ever To Achieve 100% Natural Stone Institute Accreditation
For All Members
The Artisan Group of stone fabricators has
become the first
group to have every member Natural
Stone Institute Accredited. The group members have completed rigorous testing on quality, safety
and
service to provide homeowners across North America with the best countertop purchasing experience.
Learn More: What Is The Artisan Group?
An Elite, North American Network of Independent Countertop Professionals
We offer the highest quality granite and wood surfaces imported from the best sources around the globe.
Our expert craftsmen use proven and accredited manufacturing techniques to fabricate and install
stunning countertops that will last a lifetime.
The National Kitchen + Bath Association (NKBA) is a
non-profit trade group that promotes professionalism in the kitchen and bath industry. Established in
1963 as a network of kitchen dealers, it has evolved into the premier association of designers,
retailers, remodelers, manufacturers, distributors, fabricators, installers and other industry
professionals.
The association's vision is a world in which everyone enjoys safe, beautiful and functional kitchen and
bath spaces. Our mission is to help make it happen through the creation of marketplaces, networks,
affiliations and certifications that
raise the level of professionalism by inspiring, leading and empowering each member of our community.
Natural Stone Institute Accredited
Bangor Laminates is the first fabricator in the state of Maine to earn the coveted designation
of Natural Stone Institute Accredited Natural Stone Fabricator.
In addition to leading Maine
stone fabricators with this accreditation, Bangor Laminates is the 36th fabricator to earn this
recognition from the Natural Stone Institute in the country and the 13th Artisan Group member to do so.
Accredited Natural
Stone Fabricators are primarily companies that work on residential projects such as kitchens and
bathrooms.
International Solid Surface Fabricators Association
As a member of the International Surface Fabricators
Association, Bangor Laminates observes the following
high standards of honesty, integrity, and responsibility in the conduct of our business by:
Adhering strictly to the highest quality standards of fabrication and installation.
Promoting only those products and services that are of proven quality and value.
Writing contracts and warranties that are clear, honest, and fair to all parties involved.
Honoring all contractual obligations in a reasonably prompt manner.
Quickly acting on and attempting to resolve all customer complaints.
Being fiscally responsible and honoring all legitimate financial obligations.
Site Map
About Bangor Laminates
What Is The Artisan Group?
Marble Institute of America
Accredited
Locate A Countertop Dealer In Maine
Dealer Resources
Maine Countertops
The Artisan Stone Collection
Quartz
Solid Surface
Laminate
Green Materials
Countertop Information
How To Have A Great Countertop
Install
Caring For Stone Countertops
What Kind Of Stone Is Right For Me?
Where Can I View Slabs?
Sinks, Faucets and Edge Details
Stone Countertops Q&A
Hours
Monday: 7:00 - 4:00Tuesday: 7:00 - 4:00Wednesday: 7:00 - 4:00Thursday: 7:00 - 4:00Friday: 7:00 - 4:00
Bangor Wholesale Laminates
Bangor | 355 Target Industrial Circle | Bangor
, ME 04401 | Toll Free: 800-639-7037 |
Fax: 207-947-3893 | bangor@bwlsurfaces.com
Portland | 460 Riverside Street | Portland
, ME 04103 | Toll Free: 800-639-3690 |
Fax: 207-878-8567 | portland@bwlsurfaces.com
© 2025  Bangor Wholesale Laminates
Site by Wilkinson Electronic Publishing