Banivillas
Skip to content
0540121250 | 054012151 | 0540121252
HomeAbout UsFacilities
Fully-Furnished Apartments Multi-purpose Hall for Conference / Banquets Splendid Events Grounds Floral Garden and Fishpond
Pagoda RestaurantFAQsContact UsBook Now
Search for:
Menu
Four years here could save you money
Free use of water and security cameras at vantage points for your safety
BOOK A ROOM
BANIVILLAS
Safety, comfort and security
Banivillas sits on a 9.2 acre land by the Tech – Ejisu highway, and has a beautiful floral garden, well manicured lawns and fish ponds. The built area of this gated community is expertly designed to ensure safety, comfort and security of residents while offering a large expanse of land for recreation of patrons.
BOOK NOW
CHECK ALL
Our Rooms
KITCHEN
STUDY AREA
DOUBLE BEDS
SITTING ROOM
SINGLE BED
Modern hostel rooms and apartments
Ultra-modern facilities
The concept of the design of our rooms assures residents a spacious place for both study and sleeping as well as a high level of privacy for the ultimate benefit the average degree and postgraduate student.
FACILITIES
APARTMENTSEnsuite rooms fitted with shower & toilet facilitiesHot & Cold Shower (limited) Rooms have fans and ACWardrobe
STANDARD ROOMS
Ensuite rooms fitted with shower & toilet facilities
Rooms have fans and AC
Wardrobe
Study Desk
Rooms with Individual ECG metters
Study Desk 32” Flat ScreenConvenient Kitchenette with Table top gas burnerSpacious Lounge with furniture  Table Top Fridge Rooms with Individual MetersBalconies further enlarge the living space. Neatly Kept Common Kitchens fitted with gas burnersComfortable Reading Rooms Shuttle service  Stand By Generator
If you are a prospective or a continuing student of KNUST looking for hostel accommodation, opt for Banivillas – National Best Hostel 2016.
BOOK NOW
CHECK THE
Restaurant
Pagoda serves a variety of sumptuous, mouth-watering and healthy local dishes, an array of drink and cocktails, mocktails with barbecue grill. Our catering services are for Residents as well as the general public
Further down also it should be guests. Our catering services are for Residents as well as the general public Further down also it should be guests.
READ MORE
Previous
Next
Previous
Next
CHECK THE
Salon
We are ready to give our clients that modern look and touch. Walk into our
Salon and enjoy that experience which will last for a lifetime.
Phone Support
24 HOURS A DAY
0540121250 | 054012151 | 0540121252
Connect With Us
SOCIAL MEDIA CHANNELS
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Email Support
GET IN TOUCH
banivillas2014@gmail.com | info@banivillas.com
Copyright 2020 Banivillas
Close Menu
Home
About Us
Facilities
Fully-Furnished Apartments
Multi-purpose Hall for Conference / Banquets
Splendid Events Grounds
Floral Garden and Fishpond
Pagoda Restaurant
FAQs
Contact Us
Book Now