BCX Consulting | B-BBEE Strategy Consulting | Human Resource Consulting | Employment Equity | Johannesburg
Home
About Us
Our Founder
Why Choose BCX
Services
B-BBEE Strategy
HR Consulting
Employment Equity
Business Process Rengineering
HR Audits
Training
Contacts
What we do
BCX B-BBEE Consulting Xperts is an HR,
B-BBEE, and management consulting firm specialising in B-BBEE
strategy, human resources consulting, employment equity, business process reengineering, HR audits and training.
Our company is based in Johannesburg, but we endeavour to assist individuals and organisations throughout the country with consulting services that elevate the potential of those we work with.
Our Accreditation
BCX B-BBEE Consulting Xperts has achieved a level one B-BBEE Contributor & Empowering Supplier Status,
with a B-BBEE recognition level of 135%.
We fully support the B-BBEE Amendment Act, No 46 of 2013 and
the B-BBEE Codes of Good Practice 2007 listed therein, and we ensure that our policies within the company
reflect the same. Our B-BBEE Verification Certificate available upon request.
Our Reputation
We are trusted and respected within our industry, and our clients can expect that same respect and integrity in all of our dealings, providing us with the right conditions to thrive and build long-lasting relationships and partnerships with valued clients.
Defined expertise and unique qualifications allow us to work with top executives and company boards within the public and private sector, to ensure the successful implementation of B-BBEE and HR strategies for the benefit of organisations of any size or scope.
Providing you with innovative tools and technical information to make informed decisions.
Our counsel is sought by those who wish to improve their human resources capabilities or strategy, or secure the best possible B-BBEE status for their business, leveraging the skills and experience that we bring to the table to achieve their goals and secure sustained success.
A complex, ever-changing and challenging B-BBEE and human resources framework demands a company that is able to consistently evolve and cater to specific requirements, while forecasting future needs. This is what BCX is all about.
Our Management Consulting Services include:
“Great things in business are never done
by one person.
They’re done by a team of people.”
- Steve Jobs -
Contact No.:
083 420 7617
Privacy Policy
Email Adress:
shamimao@bbbeeconsultingxperts.co.za