Beez and Honey
Beez and Honey
About
Projects
Contact
About
Nicollette Ramirez is the creator and host of Art World Confessions: A YouTube Exclusive, and The Beez and Honey Podcast. She is a writer, producer, events organizer and private art dealer. Most recently Nicollette published four children’s books: «Life Is A Video Game», «The Tree of Enlightenment (The Seeds of Enlightenment)», «The S Town Squirrels » and «The Pigeons of PC Village ». The latter two are allegories for our times about current events affecting the world. Nicollette named her company Beez And Honey when in 2006 one of her artists suggested she change the name of her art activities to something else than Sexy Girls Productions. Nicollette was inspired by artist Tom Beale's studio cum gallery named Honey Space, around the corner from the Chelsea Art Museum where she worked at that time. Throughout various civilizations in history  bees have had religious, spiritual, and mythological significance. In ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome and in shamanistic cultures throughout Africa and South America, bees have been regarded as messengers of the gods and the spirit worlds, and their honey was thought to have divine curative power and to bestow wisdom. Egyptians used it as a symbol of regal power. In heraldry, the bee is a symbol of industry, discipline, creativity, wealth and eloquence. Nicollette’s art history studies also informed her choice as bees were a symbol adopted by Napoleon. Most of the world's food production depends on bees as pollinators and Nicollette wanted to highlight the plight of the bees who were suffering a mysterious mass die off in the early 2000s, which continues today and has been attributed to the indiscriminate use of pesticides. Sacred geometry, the Golden Ratio and the Fibonacci Sequence play a role as well in the hexagonal figure of the flower and honeycomb imagery. The style of the logo is taken from spray paint, stenciling and wheat paste in street art. The logo is designed by Stanley Chow, a well known illustrator from Manchester, England.
Sign up to receive exciting updates about Beez and Honey.
Projects
ART WORLD CONFESSIONS (A YOUTUBE EXCLUSIVE)
Begun in 2023, AWC is a series about the art world with episodes airing exclusively on YouTube. All stories are told from Nicollette’s unique perspective and come from her personal experience of the art world. You can find the channel here https://youtube.com/@nicolletteramirez
Writing
Nicollette recently published three children’s picture books for ages 6-12 years old. Available for purchase at Barnes and Nobel and on Amazon “The Pigeons of PC Village” and “The S Town Squirrels” are allegories for our times. “The Tree Of Enlightenment (The Seeds of Enlightenment)” is not an allegory and adults will enjoy these books too. Nicollette has written creatively and journalistically for print and online publications as well as for gallery and museum catalogs.
In addition to work with visual artists she has collaborated with other writers to present their work in various forums in NYC.
The Beez and Honey Podcast
Launched September 2019, The Beez and Honey Podcast is an oral history of the contemporary art world. Hosted by Nicollette Ramirez, various artists, collectors, curators, gallerists and other art world luminaries are invited to share their points of view on various topics not often covered by mainstream media. Available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Anchor and many other platforms, the podcast can also be viewed on YouTube.
Subscribe to the YouTube channel to see current projects of Beez and Honey.
Exhibitions
Nicollette has curated exhibitions in the Caribbean, the Americas and in Europe. Most recently she collaborated with ArtXPuzzles to create the group exhibition Pandemonium:Art of the Pandemic (Painting is Forever) for the Untitled Art Fair during Art Basel Miami Beach. Included for the first time in her exhibition was the medium of NFTs (non fungible tokens) by artists Dim Zayan and Uri Dotan, and the concept of the Metaverse in the Online Viewing Room.
Parties & Performances
Nicollette's birthday parties have become legendary. In terms of performance based and experience-driven art, Nicollette’s creative collaborations in various events around the world have included Spencer Tunick’s “Friends of Friends” series in 2003, 2004 Joe’s Pub musical performances in collaboration with several musicians in NYC, the Chelsea Art Museum's Summer Soirees which she conceived, coordinated and hosted, and produced multi-media artist Nomad Uno’s DJ performance for the James Bond Birthday Bash in Berlin in 2012. In 2016 she hosted another James Bond Party in the historic James Brown House that houses the Ear Inn in NYC's West Soho district.
TV Appearances
Nicollette has appeared on several television programs, most recently on CNN's "Self Made" a series about entrepreneurs of the African diaspora. She also contributed to Andrew Einhorn’s television series "Naked Coast to Coast" in 2007 and helps filmmakers produce their work with strategic connections.
Music
Nicollette has been writing song lyrics since the early 2000s and collaborates with musicians to put her words to music and vice versa.
Sign up to receive updates about new episodes and other fun happenings in the Beez and Honey world.
Contact
Name
Email
Your Message
Sign up to stay in touch with Beez and Honey.
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
© Nicollette Ramirez.