Bengal Services – Bengal Service Society believes that each child irrespective of socio-economic, ethnic, cultural or intellectual background has its own potential. Given the right environment and adequate opportunities, these children are capable of remarkable achievements.
For Donations, please contact : Mrs Pradipta Kanungo at 98307 - 48732
support@bengalservicesociety.com
+91 98307 48732
Home
About Us
Gallery
Projects
Contact Us
X
Our Vision
We envision a world in which every child attains the right to survival, protection and sustainable development and every adult is ensured the dignity of life.
Our Mission
To help the child achieve its fullest potential enabling participation and contribution to all aspects of life, and to reach out to the aged and needy with empathy and support.
Our Objective
Bengal Service Society believes that each child irrespective of socio-economic, ethnic, cultural or intellectual background has its own potential. Given the right environment and adequate opportunities, these children are capable of remarkable achievements. The children suffer a feeling of exclusion in the schools and the result is isolation and finally this may lead to the children dropping out. Our aim is to give them good education and encourage them to stand on their own feet.
Our Values
Our work is guided by the following values. We will always:
Conduct ourselves with integrity
Make decisions that are ethical, evidence based, and transparent
Expand awareness of the value of all round development of socially challenged children.
Foster engagement with current and future practitioners to strengthen the wide-ranging field of rehabilitation of children
Embrace diversity and inclusivity
Seek out relationships and partnerships in the spirit of collaboration
Build relationships to increase the impact of our advocacy in society
Success Story
Nayan came to the residential unit of Cossipore Girls run by Bengal Service Society under Sarva Siksha Mission when she was in Class V. Her father had separated when she was very small and the mother brought her up with a lot of difficulty as she earned a meagre amount by singing in local functions.
Nayan being extremely talented immediately became the favourite of her caregivers. She was not only good in studies but could sing and dance equally well. Obedient and polite she took up a lot of responsibility in the residential home and was very popular among her juniors.
Nayan participated in all cultural programs and  her role as Arjun in Tagore's Chitrangada won hearts all around.
Nayan passed Madhyamik with Star marks having secured letter in four subjects. Her score was the highest among all the twenty five residential schools in Kolkata. She was awarded by Sarva Siksha Mission. Right now she is doing her Higher Secondary from a reputed school in South Kolkata. She is on scholarship which covers the cost of her studies. BSS is glad that it got the opportunity of developing Nayan.
Nayan Mitra
Shubhojit Mondal came under the care of Bengal Service Society as a child. He lived in Prem Chand Boral Street with his mother. He was orphaned as his mother passed away and was rescued by Childline and put under the care of CWC. Along with other orphans, Shubhojit was sent to the Open Shelter project of Bengal Service Society under WCD department. He was admitted to a local primary school. He was a quiet and obedient boy. He kept to himself busy with drawing and studies.
After a year, Shubhojit was sent to the residential unit of Cossipore Boys'school under SSM also run by BSS.
Here too he made a mark by his diligence and desire to make it big in life. Shubhojit scored a First Division in Madhyamik with letter marks in two subjects.
Since he has no one to call his own, BSS took special permission from the school and SSM to continue staying in the hostel and studying HS in a reputed school in North Kolkata. All his educational expenses are borne by BSS and we have the conviction that Shubhojit will succeed in setting an example and making us proud.
Shubhojit Mondal
The EPS (Electronic Payment Standard) payment method has emerged as a favorite among online casino players, especially in Austria, for its reliability and ease of use. EPS is an online bank transfer system, directly linked to users' bank accounts, offering swift and secure transaction processing. Its real-time transaction capability means deposits into casino accounts are almost instantaneous, a significant advantage for eager players.
Using EPS for online casino deposits assures a high level of security since sensitive banking details are not shared directly with the casino. Instead, transactions are authenticated and confirmed via the user’s familiar online banking interface, providing an additional layer of security and minimizing the risk of fraud or data theft. More information and a list of online casinos that accept payment via EPS can be found at Gold-Chip.at.
EPS is also known for its user-friendliness. Players don't need to register for additional services or manage separate accounts. They simply use their existing bank account, greatly simplifying and speeding up the deposit process. Many online casinos in Austria and beyond accept EPS, highlighting its popularity and acceptance in the online gambling community. Overall, EPS offers an efficient, secure, and user-friendly solution for online casino players, ensuring a seamless and safe gaming experience.
Awards and Recognition
Recipient of Mother Teresa International Award for Contribution to Inclusive Education (2015), Parul Prakashini Award.
Our Gallery
Bengal Service Society believes that each child irrespective of socio-economic, ethnic, cultural or intellectual background has its own potential. Given the right environment and adequate opportunities, these children are capable of remarkable achievements.
Quick Links
Home
About Us
Gallery
Projects
Contact Us
Get In Touch
Copyright 2021 Bengal Service Society All rights reserved | Designed by LNSEL
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok