Bikesh Shrestha - UI/UX Designer | Graphics Designer | Branding
contact@bikeshshrestha.com | (123)-456-7890
About
Blog
Portfolio
Contact
Get in Touch
Hello!
I’m BIKESH Shrestha
Digital Product designer – UIUX
FollowFollowFollowFollowFollowFollow
me@bikeshshrestha.com.np
+977 9849368005
Kathmandu, NP
Resume
About me
A Designer Based in Kathmandu, Nepal
Product Designer with a passion for building Products that makes an impact on community.
I am dedicated to creating intuitive and engaging user experiences that drive business success. With a strong understanding of user-centered design principles and hands-on experience with various design tools, I am able to lead cross-functional teams to design and launch successful products.
Beside these we can have a coffee together or go on a photowalk. Call me!
Experience
Senior Product Designer
IME Pay – IME Digital Solutions.
Jan 2022 – Present
Evaluate current branding, product, and details to create useful and elegant digital experiences across 2 different mobile platforms: IME Pay Wallet and IME PAY Agent apps.
Collaborate with other designers to maintain design consistency and coherence across features on IME Digital products.
Personally built relationships and encouraged collaboration across teams to improve IME Digital products.
Designed elegant flows and interactions for digital products partnered with third-party services.
Sr. UI Designer
The Crazy Studio Pvt. Ltd.
Aug 2020 – Nov 2021
Designed UI and interactive web pages for HVAC business owners.
Collaborate with project managers to validate business requirements.
Accelerated design execution by integrating feedback and defining the best design principles and creating a visual library.
UIUX Designer / Sr. Graphics Designer
Vianet Communication Pvt. Ltd
Apr 2018 – Aug 2020
Evaluate current branding, products and company details to create new style guides and present alternative styles and dashboard designs.
Create concepts, sketches and ideas and incorporated them into design decisions, resulting in an improved and significant design creation.
Evaluate current branding, products and company details to create new style guides and present alternative styles and dashboard designs.
Create concepts, sketches and ideas and incorporated them into design decisions, resulting in an improved and significant design creation.
Sr. Graphics Designer
Buzzketting Networks Pvt. Ltd
Feb 2016 – Nov 2017
Collaborate with clients and stakeholders to develop visual concepts that align with their business objectives
Create visual concepts, ideas and sketches for social media contents and design the final artwork to be posted on social media and campaigns for the clients.
Manage multiple projects simultaneosly, ensuring they are completed on time and within budget.
Collaborate with designers from brainstorming ideas to final design and presenting them to the clients for approval.
Porfolio
Education & SKills
Skills
N
UX/UI Design
N
Product Strategy
N
Rapid Prototyping
N
Usability Testing
N
Interaction Design
N
Design Thinking
N
Usability Testing
N
Empathy Mapping
N
Information Architecture
Interaction Design Foundation
Product Design
2023 – Present
Asian School Of Management & Technology
Kathmandu, Nepal
Full Stack Web Development
2012 – 2016
Bhanu Bhakta Memorial College
Kathmandu, Nepal
Higher Secondary Studies (+2 Science)
2009 -2011
Nava Jeewan HSS
Kathmandu, Nepal
School Leaving Certificate
2009
Recent Work
Refundable Airline Tickets – IME Pay
Ime Pay App redesign
Full Portfolio
References
Your designs are not only aesthetically pleasing but also highly functional. It's clear that you prioritize usability and accessibility in your work.— Ujjwal Shrestha, HID, IME Digital Solution
Your willingness to seek and incorporate feedback into your design process shows a commitment to continuous learning and improvement.— Rajeev Shakya, HOD Vianet Communication
I appreciate the thoroughness of your design process, from research and conceptualization to the final execution. It's evident that you put a lot of thought into your work.— Abhishek Gurung, MD Buzzketing Networks
Let’s Work Together
Name
Phone Number
Email Address
Message
Submit
me@bikeshshrestha.com.np
+977 9849368005
FollowFollowFollowFollowFollowFollow