First Name *
Last Name *
Email *
Phone
Location (City)
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
Attach
Dropbox
Google Drive
or enter manually
(File types: pdf, doc, docx, txt, rtf)
Cover Letter
Drop files here
Attach
Dropbox
Google Drive
or enter manually
(File types: pdf, doc, docx, txt, rtf)
+ Add another employment
LinkedIn Profile
Website
Do you now, or will you in the future, require sponsorship for employment visa status (e.g. Hi-B visa status, CPT, OPT etc.) to work legally for our company in the United States? *
--
Yes
No
What company do you work for, or were you employed with at your last job?
What was the last position title you held, or are you in now?
Voluntary Self-Identification
For government reporting purposes, we ask candidates to respond to the below self-identification survey.
Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will not be considered in the hiring
process or thereafter. Any information that you do provide will be recorded and maintained in a
confidential file.
As set forth in DocuSign’s Equal Employment Opportunity policy,
we do not discriminate on the basis of any protected group status under any applicable law.
Gender
Please selectMale
Female
Decline To Self Identify
Are you Hispanic/Latino?
Please selectYes
No
Decline To Self Identify
Please identify your race
Please selectAmerican Indian or Alaskan Native
Asian
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latino
White
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
Two or More Races
Decline To Self Identify
Race & Ethnicity Definitions
If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection.
As a government contractor subject to the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act (VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure
the effectiveness of the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA. Classification of protected categories
is as follows:
A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected disability.
A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.
An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.
An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.
Veteran Status
Please selectI am not a protected veteran
I identify as one or more of the classifications of a protected veteran
I don't wish to answer
Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability
Form CC-305
Page 1 of 1
OMB Control Number 1250-0005
Expires 04/30/2026
Why are you being asked to complete this form?
We are a federal contractor or subcontractor. The law requires us to provide equal employment opportunity to qualified people with disabilities. We have a goal of having at least 7% of our workers as people with disabilities. The law says we must measure our progress towards this goal. To do this, we must ask applicants and employees if they have a disability or have ever had one. People can become disabled, so we need to ask this question at least every five years.
Completing this form is voluntary, and we hope that you will choose to do so. Your answer is confidential. No one who makes hiring decisions will see it. Your decision to complete the form and your answer will not harm you in any way. If you want to learn more about the law or this form, visit the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.
How do you know if you have a disability?
A disability is a condition that substantially limits one or more of your “major life activities.” If you have or have ever had such a condition, you are a person with a disability. Disabilities include, but are not limited to:
Alcohol or other substance use disorder (not currently using drugs illegally)
Autoimmune disorder, for example, lupus, fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis, HIV/AIDS
Blind or low vision
Cancer (past or present)
Cardiovascular or heart disease
Celiac disease
Cerebral palsy
Deaf or serious difficulty hearing
Diabetes
Disfigurement, for example, disfigurement caused by burns, wounds, accidents, or congenital disorders
Epilepsy or other seizure disorder
Gastrointestinal disorders, for example, Crohn's Disease, irritable bowel syndrome
Intellectual or developmental disability
Mental health conditions, for example, depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorder, schizophrenia, PTSD
Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
Mobility impairment, benefiting from the use of a wheelchair, scooter, walker, leg brace(s) and/or other supports
Nervous system condition, for example, migraine headaches, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis (MS)
Neurodivergence, for example, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism spectrum disorder, dyslexia, dyspraxia, other learning disabilities
Partial or complete paralysis (any cause)
Pulmonary or respiratory conditions, for example, tuberculosis, asthma, emphysema
Short stature (dwarfism)
Traumatic brain injury
Disability Status
Please selectYes, I have a disability, or have had one in the past
No, I do not have a disability and have not had one in the past
I do not want to answer
PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5 minutes to complete.
Enter the verification code sent to  to confirm you are not a robot, then submit your application.
Security Code *
This application was flagged as potential bot traffic. To resubmit your application, turn off any VPNs, clear the browser's cache and cookies, or try another browser. If you still can't submit it, contact our support team through the help center.
Company Name
*
Title
*
Start Date
*
End Date
*
Current
Powered by
Read our Privacy Policy