Bogdan Stepien
Bogdan Stepien
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Bogdan Stepien – Richboro, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
If you have been conned by Bogdan Stepien of 9 Joshua Dr. Richboro PA, please contact info@bogdanstepien.com
Thanks for visiting!  The sole purpose of this website is to warn others of Mr. Bogdan Stepien of 9 Joshua Dr. Richboro Pennsylvania.
It all started when Bogdan Stepien approached his wife’s cousin about investing. A deal was made and Bogdan started “trading” in the stock market with this money. (Upon looking at the account at a later date, it was evident that no worthwhile trading was being done, just a bunch of ATM withdrawals and checks made payable to himself.) The weekly reports that were being sent out were showing fantastic results and in typical ponzi-scheme fashion, I as well as 2 other friends jumped in and decided to invest. Here’s the original statement he sent showing a balance in account ending in 5727. He later gave us access to that account once we caught him and upon review, it was evident that my money was never deposited in that account. This statement was clearly doctored.
Fact 1
Bogdan Stepien scammed  myself and 3 friends out of $25,000 each.
The original statements Bogdan Stepien sent to all of us (faked of course).
If you notice, all of these account statements have the same number ending in 5727. After chatting with Frederick Frierson (frederick.frierson{AT}etrade.com) E-Trade Security for about an hour, they confirmed that there was never any deposits in our names on any account.
click for hi-res
An example account report Bogdan Stepien sent each week.
click for hi-res
In the first half of March, after the last entry on the above report,  Bogdan said he was going to stop trading so he could take tests to become a licensed hedge fund. He even showed us the office space that he had rented and some brand new pristine business cards he had made up. But in fact at this point, only 8 weeks after we had all given him money, he was actually broke. He wasn’t doing any weekly payouts, and all checks were bouncing.
This is were the bullshit multiplies…
He said it would be 3-6 weeks before he could start trading again but that he would send us all our account balances via E-Trade check while he studied and took the tests for certification. Those checks never came.  When questioned about it, he stated that a company he used to work for was getting investigated for money-laundering and so our accounts were froze in the process as a side affect.
He tells a fascinating story about how he had to “go to court” and get things resolved with the judge. In this tale, the judge sided with Bogdan, but it would be 25 days for paperwork to go through to unfreeze all of the accounts that Bogdan was managing.
Fast forward 25 days and our money is still spent  “frozen”. Apparently in a dramatic turn of events, the prosecution appealed the case and so the judge gave them another 25-30 days to come up with any further evidence they needed. Mind you this is all bullshit and red flags were being raised , but we went along since he is now a family member of our good friend.
June 30th – The day the walls of this saga finally come crumbling down
On June 30th, he finally admitted that he lost the money, just not how he lost it. He said he chose the wrong people to invest with and he lost our money to these ‘other’ people in some type of failed bar/club start-up.  He later changed his story and said that he in fact lost all of our money trading in the stock market. When asked to show where these losses were, he gave 2 different E-Trade accounts to look at. However, these accounts didn’t show any activity where that money was lost.  When asked again, he would always change the subject or say that there were no other accounts.
HE NEVER DEPOSITED THE MONEY IN AN E-TRADE ACCOUNT. HE NEVER TRADED ANYTHING FOR US. ONLY HE KNOWS WHAT HAPPENED TO ALL THAT MONEY ONLY 8 WEEKS AFTER WE FOOLISHLY “INVESTED”.
Somewhere along the way he claimed he was going to get his sister and her husband to withdrawal some of their 401k  to pay us back. He said we would have it on September 16th and that would be the end of it.
I’ll give you 2 guesses what happened on September 16th. You probably guessed it correctly the first time around in that there was no money that changed hands.
Now all he says is “I will get you your money, don’t worry”. He’s lost all creativity in formulating any type of lie at this point.  Thus, this website has been created to warn all the good people of the earth that may be in the proximity of this scumbag.
If you happen to be in the Richboro/King of Prussia/Philadelphia area, and Bogdan Stepien starts talking about investing in the stock market or FOREX, tell him he is full of shit and walk away.
This entry was posted in Investment Fraud on October 7, 2014 by bogdan.