Photo Booth Rental - FotoFusion Photo Experience
Home
Packages & Pricing
What We Offer
Back
New Features
Augmented Reality (AR)
Virtual Booth Rental
Print Options
Standard Backdrops
Premium Backdrops
Video Sample
PhotosToGo by FotoFusion Memories
About The Fun
Back
About Us
Past Events Gallery
Contact
Sponsor an Event
Share Your Experience
Capture your Quote Here!
Event Photos Now Find The Guest!
Once the guest registers ONE time with our system then any photo they are spotted in appears in their personal album so they can see all the memories they were part of.
Click to Contact Us to Learn More!
LET FOTOFUSION CAPTURE YOUR MEMORIES WITH A FUN PHOTO BOOTH
As your full service photo booth rental company "Where the fun Begins" is not just our tag line.  It is our mission to ensure that you are having fun and capturing memories of a lifetime.  Our friendly attendants on-site are there to make sure your guest are having fun and everything runs smooth for the duration of the event!
Manage Booking
See Us on Facebook
Tap an Image Above for More Details
Delivering a Fun experience every time while capturing memories!
Mirror Booth
A mirrored photo booth can provide a unique, interactive, and personalized photo experience for guests and can create a fun, memorable keepsake of the event. Book your event photos now find the guest!
Immersive
An immersive experience allows users to be placed in any location or scenario, with the ability to add or remove objects, creating a personalized and customizable photo.
Augmented Reality
Augmented reality photo is a technology that enhances a real-world image by adding virtual elements such as animations, text, or other graphics to it. It provides a fun and interactive way to capture memories.
Virtual Booth
A virtual photo booth is a digital version of a traditional photo booth that allows users to take pictures and apply digital effects, frames, and overlays without the need of a physical photo booth.
What have we been up to?
Take a moment to look at the memories we have captured!
Resources
Photo Gallery
Reserve Your Date
Staff Login
Connections
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Our Company
Privacy
Cancellations
Learn About & Contact
About Us
smile@fotofusionfun.com
(866)433-5527
©
2010 -     2023
All rights reserved. BPH Entertainment, llc  || web services by  Unicorn Web Development, llc