Camp in Uttarakhand | Camp in Kanatal | Camp In Dhanaulti
×
Customer Feedback
Please use this form to provide feedback about our services
Would you describe your feedback as (tick where appropriate)
Compliment
Complaint
Suggestion
Comment
Call our travel team
+91-9911674000,+91-9911820000
Make My Trip New
Menu
Home
About us
Facilities & Activities
Packages
Family Packages
Group Family Packages
Corporate Packages
College and Institute Packages
School Packages
Day Picnic Packages
School Trips
Camping Tips
Gallery
Image Gallery
Video Gallery
Contact
Adventure Sports Activities
We offer adventure sports activities with a view to bring our clients face-to-face with amazing and exciting world of adventure sports.
Ground Sports Activities
Apart from the beautiful location, camp Kanatal consists a large play ground area in which anyone whether a child or an adult can enjoy a number of sports and play activities.
Team Building Activities
We provide our clients team building activities, which is the process of improving collective performance of a team.
Bonfire Facilities
We offer bonfire facilities for meeting the varied requirements of our holiday enthusiasts clients. The bonfire is a large controlled outdoor fire.
Previous
Next
Camp Carnival India
The land of the celestial beauty
The camp carnival has a picturesque location, with a breathtaking panoramic view of Himalayas. Our site is blessed with the majestic snow clad mountains, gigantic and ecstatic peaks, and dense forest.
We Promise our guests a visit full of fun and unforgettable moments.
At camp carnival you will find an unusual mix of beauty, comfort and adventure. Our camping program has been carefully cultivated to ensure that you get to experience a unique activity driven holiday that is physically arduous but mentally rejuvenating.
Camp Kanatal is situated at 8,400 fts near Mussoorie at the distance of 310 Kms/8 hrs from Delhi/NCR, tucked away in the midst of deep forests of oaks. Set in the heart of the Indian Himalayas and surrounded by dense Pine, long wooded slopes of Deodar, Pine, Oak and Rhododendron forests, Kanatal (Thangdhar), the camp offers tranquility seems to be straight out of some romantic classic. The beautiful and picturesque 180 degree view of the snow clad Himalayas will fill you with a romantic charm. Beautiful and captivating zenvironment and camp life will make you feel like the love and pleasure of lying in Mother Nature's lap.
View More
Facilities & Activities
Browse through our top adventures
Adventure Sports Activities
We offer adventure sports activities with a view to bring our clients face-to-face with amazing and exciting world of adventure sports.
Ground Sports Activities
Apart from the beautiful location, camp Kanatal consists a large play ground area in which anyone whether a child or an adult...
Team Building Activities
We provide our clients team building activities, which is the process of improving collective performance of a team.
Bonfire Facilities
We offer bonfire facilities for meeting the varied requirements of our holiday enthusiasts clients. The bonfire is a large controlled...
Our Video Showreel
It's time to start your adventures
Camp Carnival Packages
Specially crafted packages for you
Family Packages
Camping is a perfect way to fabricate a closer relationship between parents and kids.
Group Family Packages
Family camping is the ideal way in bringing the members of a family closer to each other.
Corporate Packages
At Camp Carnival, we offer corporate camping with all new experience of leisure filled
College & Institute Packages
Come with your friends and classmates to make a new bonding of having fun togeather.
School Packages
We at Camp Carnival offer a all new experience of school camping filled with lots of fun.
Day Picnic Packages
Make a short trip with your family ,relatives or friends .Refresh yourself with breathtaking
Our Image Gallery
Few moments from our gallery
What People Say
Few words from our satisfied clients
"Best Place to Live...... Best People to take care........" Readmore
Rohit
"We have a very nice stay at Camp Carnival, Kanatal. My family enjoyed a lot. Your senior staff Mr Altab, Amit & Sam took a very good care and all the arrangements (food, adventurous activities, music etc) were very good. I have recommended lots of my corporte friends for Camp Carnival visit.
Thanks for the hospitality once again...." Readmore
Rajeev Saxena
"We were at the camp last night and it went well. You have a good team.
I will take my wife there soon as she would really enjoy the location...." Readmore
Sumit
"THANKS FOR THE NICE HOSPITALITY, THANKS TO MR. ALTAF AND HIS TEAM TO HAVING GOOD SUPPORT TO THE STUDENTS, ALL OUR BOYS ENJOYED ALOT. REST IS FINE. THANKS TO YOU HAVING GREAT SUPPORT ON THE LAST DAY WHILE ARRIVING DELHI. LOOKING FORWARD TO HAVING PROGRAMME IN FUTURE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH...." Readmore
AJIT KUMAR SINGH
"Dear Ms Geetanjali / Manish Ji,
Trip went off excellent way, food was delicious, good team work and coordination in staff at camp. Mr Altaf handled everything in smooth way. It was great experience to be in your camp.
Thanks for all continuous support by both of you and Mr Sherawat Ji...." Readmore
Pawan Upadhayay
Key Activities Offered
Lots of activities to choose from
NAVIGATION
Home
About Us
Gallery
Enquiry
Contact Us
Career
Testimonials
Terms & Conditions
FACILITIES & ACTIVITIES
Adventure Sports Activitiesg
Ground Sports Activities
Team Building Activities
Bonfire Facilities
DJ Nights
OUR PACKAGES
Family Packages
Group Family Packages
Corporate Packages
College and Institute Packages
School Packages
Day Picnic Packages
GET IN TOUCH WITH US
Contact Address
Kanatal, Chamba-Mussoorie Road, Near Dhanaulti Distt. Tehri Garhwal, Uttrakhand.
Phone Numbers
+91-9911674000,+91-9911820000
E-mail ID
info@campcarnivalindia.com
Copyright @ 2017, Camp Carnival. All Rights Reserved
Design & Developed by: Intouch Group
×
Camp Carnival Route Map
×
Make My Trip
Stay In Camp
1 Night/2 Days
2 Nights/3 Days
3 Nights/4 Days
Day Picnic
Stay In Camp
Day Picnic
Twin Sharing
Triple Sharing
Quadrupple Sharing
Select Meals
Breakfast
Lunch
Veg. Eve Snx
BBQ (1+1)
BBQ (2+2)
Dinner
Select Adventure Activities
Rock climbing
Rappeling
Valley Crossing
Burma Bridge
Commando Net
Parallel Rope
Trekking
Rafting in Rishikesh
High Rope Activity Course
Other Activities
Ground Sports Activities
Team Building Activities
Indoor Games
Forest Picnic Lunch
Bonfire at Night
DJ Night
×
Mytrip Details!