Canadian Visa Professionals - Immigration to Canada
EngSpanPortFrench
Apply Login
Home
About us
Why Canada
Visa Programs
FAQ
Contact Us
Home
About us
Why Canada
Visa Programs
FAQ
Contact Us
Immigration to Canada
Live and work in Canada as a permanent resident!
High Quality of Life
Job Opportunities
Immigrant-Friendly
Free Health Care
Access to Education
Option for Citizenship
Apply Now
About us
Canadian Visa Professionals is a private international company that works with an authorized Canadian immigration consultant to offer eligibility evaluations and other services to people who want to live and work in Canada as permanent residents.
The authorized Canadian immigration consultant who we collaborate with has many years of experience assisting individuals and families throughout the entire procedure for immigration to Canada.
You can receive a personal profile evaluation performed by the authorized Canadian immigration consultant that will inform you about your potential eligibility to apply for immigration to Canada. This is a beneficial service, since there are several Canadian visa programs and each has its own requirements and application procedure.
Guidance is also available from the authorized Canadian immigration consultant who we collaborate with to make sure that your application perfectly meets all the necessary requirements before it is submitted, to help you avoid mistakes and to make the process easier for you.
Canadian Visa Professionals offers its clients a range of supplemental products and services that can be useful for people applying for immigration to Canada, such as language learning software to learn or improve English or French language skills; online courses to prepare for the IELTS English language evaluation exam; and services that can help individuals create a CV and LinkedIn profile according to the expectations of the Canadian job market.
Our goal at Canadian Visa Professionals is for the overall procedure to be as simple and efficient as possible, facilitated by the quality services and products that we offer!
More About Us
Why Choose Us?
Well ExperiencedThe authorized Canadian immigration consultant who we collaborate with will provide you with a confidential personal assessment to help you determine exactly what your best options are to achieve your immigration goals. If you are eligible to apply for a particular Canadian visa program, the experienced immigration consultant who we work with can walk you step-by-step through the immigration process.
Beneficial ServicesYou can apply for immigration to Canada by yourself; however, the authorized Canadian immigration consultant we work with can simplify the process for you, make sure it is done correctly and they answer your questions throughout the procedure. The immigration consultant we collaborate with will work hard on your behalf to guide you and your family confidently during each stage of the Canadian immigration process!
Customer FocusedAt Canadian Visa Professionals, our top priority is for every customer to receive high-quality products and services. Our customer service representatives are well-trained and will be happy to assist you in various languages. If you have questions or need assistance, please feel free to contact us and we will do our best to promptly assist you. Our goal is for you to have a  pleasant experience on your journey to live in Canada!
Visa programs
Express Entry
This Canadian immigration management system processes applications for skilled foreign workers who want to move to Canada. Applicants who meet the criteria for a qualifying Canadian visa program must provide their details in an online Express Entry profile. After the Invitation to Apply is issued, an applicant has 90 days to submit the Canadian visa application and usually receives a decision within six months.
Read more!
Federal Skilled Worker Program (FSWP)The FSWP is a points-based Canadian visa program for skilled foreign professionals who have at least one year of full-time paid work experience during the past 10 years in a qualifying occupation. Points are given for age, education, work experience, English/French language skills, valid job offer in Canada, and adaptability, with a minimum of 67 out of 100 points required to apply for Express Entry to Canada.
Read more!
Federal Skilled Trades Program (FSTP)The FSTP is a Canadian immigration program for skilled foreign tradespeople with at least two years of full-time paid work experience within the last five years in a qualifying trade. Applicants who meet the requirements for English/French language skills, health, character and other criteria may be able to move to Canada through the Express Entry system.
Read more!
Provincial Nominee Program (PNP)There are different demands for skilled foreign workers across Canada, so most provinces and territories have collaborated with the Canadian national government to create a PNP that meets their local needs. In general, a foreign worker will apply to the PNP of a particular province or territory and if issued a provincial nomination, will next apply for immigration with the national government which has the sole authority to issue a Canadian visa.
Read more!
Quebec Skilled Worker Program (QSWP)Foreign workers who want to move to Canada and live in the mostly French-speaking province of Quebec must apply for the points-based Quebec Skilled Worker Program. The two-step process for this Canadian immigration program involves applying to the QSWP and if Quebec’s provincial officials issue a Certificat de sélection du Québec (CSQ), the next step is to apply for a Canadian visa with the national government.
Read more!
Why Canada
#1 for quality of life(Source: US News & World Report, University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business and BAV Consulting, 2021)
#1 best country to live(Source: US News & World Report, University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business and BAV Consulting, 2021)
#7 for personal freedom(Source: Legatum Institute, 2021)
#9 largest economy(Source: World Bank, 2020 GDP Rankings)
#10 most peaceful country (Source: 2021 Global Peace Index)
#9 best country for expats to live and work abroad(Source: The HSBC Expat Explorer Survey, 2020)
Apply now for immigration to Canada
Apply now!
Useful Links
Immigration News
Privacy Policy
CCPA Notice
User Rights Policy
Security Policy
Terms and Conditions
About us The CanadianVP.com website is owned and operated by CVP Global Services Limited, Registration Number 10816717, Lynton House, 7-12 Tavistock Square, WC1H 9BQ, London, UK, which is a private international company that is not related to Canada’s government or the CICC and is not a member or agent of the CICC. The content available herein is not and shall not be taken as professional or legal advice. We make the best efforts to keep the information up-to-date, however, some terms presented on the website, including the immigration eligibility criteria, might change at any time. Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved.
We work with these payment methods:
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. OkDisable
We use cookies for functional, analytical, and advertising purposes.Review our Privacy Policy to learn more, including how to adjust your cookie settings.
Ok