Chinese New Year Oriental Rug Cleaning (on-site) | Dry-Tech All Green Carpet Care
Dry-Tech All Green Carpet Care
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
Pet Stain and Odor Removal
Upholstery Cleaning
Carpet Stain Removal
Tile and Grout Cleaning
Residential Carpet Cleaning
Commercial Carpet Cleaning
About Us
Contact Us
Search for:
Blog
Chinese New Year Oriental Rug Cleaning (on-site)
January 31, 2014 Rose Born
Year of the Horse
Your local “on-site”  Professional Oriental rug cleaning technician can have your rug restored to its previous vivid colors and soft feel in no time. Oriental rugs are  attractive and functional, and usually placed in areas that receive a lot of foot traffic, resulting in wear. Stores carry a wide variety of home carpet shampoos and stain removers. Commercially bought products cannot solve your problem as well as your local Carpet and Rug Cleaning Technician. A wide range of construction materials and styles make Oriental rug cleaning a task that is better suited to those armed with the proper tools and training. Each floor covering, whether it’s a Oriental rug or wall to wall carpeting each is unique and should be treated and restored accordingly. Wear and fading patterns, stain types, overall condition and integrity all come into the equation when determining the best method for cleaning and restoring your Oriental rug.
The benefit of a deep down cleaning is that it frees the carpet fiber of dirt and grime, as an added bonus, the air is fresher too.
Your local Professional  Carpet and Rug Cleaning Technician can offer the type of attention and care that your Oriental rug requires without removing them from your home.
Be sure to ask your Professional Carpet Care Specialist for “Carpet Shield” carpet and fabric protector.
By: Rose
(916) 226-5466
Post navigation
Previous PostPersian Rug Cleaning “On-Site” in Granite BayNext PostUpholstery Care & Maintenance
Customers Review (Cyndi Cox)- Wayne did a quick and professional job. Nice guy too. I will definitely use Dry Tech next time.
(Paula Stackouse)- Wayne the carpet Tech did a wonderful job on my carpets!!! Also, All Green Carpet Care was able to come the next day!!! Thank you. For help with our inspection.
(Enrique)- Wayne my tech did a great job on my carpets upholstery.
Dried very fast. I will call Dry Tech for my next Service
(Mary Ann Velasco)- Rose and Wayne were great to work with! Wayne did an awesome job. We just bought this house and the carpet needed TLC and Wayne made the carpet look live again! So happy we found them and will definitely use them again!!!
Tricia Robinow- Wayne did such a great job on my carpets! He was quick but thorough. Best of all my carpets look great and they are so so soft! I thought I might have to buy a new carpet before Wayne. He said I just needed a good cleaning and he was RIGHT!!
More Reviews
Recent Posts
Pets and upholstery
First impressions
Rain and Carpets Don’t Mix!
Holiday’s are Here!
Carpet Cleaning Tips
Servicing Areas: Rocklin, Rancho Cordova, Citrus Heights, Orangevale, Antelope, Elverta, Roseville, Granite Bay, Lincoln, Loomis, North Highlands, and Rio Linda.
100% Eco Safe no Chemicals used Carpet Cleaning.
Green Eco-Friendly Dry’s In 1 Hr. 100% Better Results Than Steam Cleaning! Click On Map To Write A Customer Review
Insured and Bonded License #348574
Memberships and Associations:  Christian Fellowship Roseville CA
Partners for Growth
Main Street Chamber
Successful Thinkers
Winning Local
Proudly powered by WordPress