CAREER INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED SKILLS (CIAS)
ciasthiruvalla@gmail.com   |   +91 906198 4000, 906198 5000  |
Home
About
Features
Programs
Bachelor of Vocational Degree Programmes
Post Graduate Diploma Programs
Contact
CIAS : The Premier learning HUB partner of Tata Institute of Social Science-School of Vocational Education (TISS-SVE)
For More Please Refer : https://www.sve.tiss.edu/
CAREER INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED SKILLS (CIAS)
Career Education Trust Provides new Dimensions to the aspirations of the youth by imparting Specialized and Excellent education and ensures the best Career Opportunities. View More
Mission
We endeavor to become one of the leading healthcare providers across the country, focusing on imparting quality training to prospective healthcare professionals.
Vision
Committed to provide a high quality learner and centric environment for all health science disciplines by creating a realistic and innovative environment.
Qualified Teachers
Talented Students
Years Of Experience
Placements
Years of experience
in rendering   high quality services
CAREER INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED SKILLS (CIAS) offers different and unique degree programs in order to fill skilled personnel in the respective fields and committed to
bring about high quality training at par with global standards for better outcomes by empowering individuals with knowledge skills.
Placement Assistance
Qualified Faculty
Job training
Moderate Fees
PROGRAMS
TISS-SVE offers courses currently beginning with Diploma course and leading to Bachelor of Vocational Degree (B.Voc). Every individual level/year is a standalone certification recognised and awarded. This course allows the students who have completed 12th standard or equivalent to join directly at NSQF Level 5 based on their academic achievements. The target group for such courses is largely marginalized youth who are seeking non-formal educational methods to enhance earning capabilities and thereby improve livelihood condition.
The Vocational course is a three year degree program consisting a combination of Practical, Theory and Generic (provided by TISS - SVE) courses. The three year program is divided into 6 semesters (2 semesters/year).
Bachelor of Vocational Degree (B.Voc). Programmes
This course allows the students who have completed 12th standard or equivalent to join directly at NSQF Level 5 based on their academic achievements. The target group for such courses is largely marginalized youth who are seeking non-formal educational methods to enhance earning capabilities and thereby improve livelihood conditions.
View More
Post Graduate Diploma Programs
These courses are for the professionals (in some cases also freshers) who seek to enhance earning capabilities through up-gradation of skills which are in demands by the job market.
Duration of these courses ranges from a few weeks to a year. The objective of these courses is to upgrade the specialised skills that each sector demands to enhance earning capabilities of the trainee.
View More
CIAS - THE MOST PREFERRED PRIVATE COLLEGE
Explore courses and events in our campus.
Our Role Models
Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam
“Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.”
Dr. S Radhakrishnan
“When we think we know, We cease to learn.”
COURSE HIGHLIGHTS
Central Govt Approved Certifications
100% Placement Assistance
Multiple Entry and Exit Options
Moderate Fees
Lectures by Experienced Faculty
Skilled Based Courses
Earn While You Learn
Work Integrated Training
Our Skill Knowledge Partners (SKPs)
Century HospitalMulakuzha, Chengannur
Medical Mission HospitalThiruvalla
VSM HospitalThattarambalam, Mavelikkara
Health Park Medical Center Alappuzha
Muthoot DiagnosticsAll Branches
CIAS
Career Institute of Advanced Skills (CIAS) College is a skill training centre that focuses on providing skills for work.
Navigation
Home
About us
Programs
Features
Contact us
Contact Information
CIAS,Career Institute of Advanced Skills 2nd Floor, Pazhoor Complex,Railway Station Road,Thiruvalla - 689101 Pathanamthitta, Kerala State, India
+91 906198 1000, 906198 5000
ciasthiruvalla@gmail.com
karimpumkala.com
kvkidukki.org
panickersholidayhome.com
poabsorganic.com
ziondentalimplantclinic.com
alfuratgroup.net
© 2019 CIAS. All Rights Reserved. Design by   AkeyDesigns