DocuSign
Contact Us / Website
DocuSign
Dear Sophie
At HLB Mann Judd we are always looking to improve your customer experience. We believe in great service and we understand that technology can play an important part in improving our service.
The way we are asking you to sign documents will change from Monday 22nd July 2019.
We are streamlining the document signing process, providing convenience and security to the way in which we execute your document signing requirements.
To do this we are implementing the use of Digital Signatures with the DocuSign platform which will:
Deliver documents to you for signing,
Manage the signing process, facilitating the input of your signature, and
Return fully signed copies back to you for your records.
The document signing process within DocuSign is very straight forward and will replace the need to print, sign and scan your documents for return to our office. It is a secure and legally compliant platform which meets Australian legal requirements for executing our documents.
What to expect
The first change you will notice is the email sent from our office requesting your signature will be delivered from the address dse@aumail.docusign.net
This process is managed by our client services team, however there is no change to the way you communicate with us. Please feel free to call, email or visit our office.  For further information please see the benefits statement available at this link.
What you need to do
Keep your email contact details updated - Please let us know if you change your email address.
Ensure emails sent by our office through DocuSign are not sitting in your spam folder.
Any questions?
Please contact your HLB Mann Judd Partner regarding this change.
Thanks
HLB Mann Judd - Perth
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation
Important: This is not advice. Clients should not act solely on the basis of the material contained in this Bulletin. Items herein are general comments only and do not constitute advice per se. Also changes in legislation may occur quickly. We therefore recommend that our formal advice be sought before acting in any of the areas. The Bulletin is issued as a helpful guide to clients and for their private information. Therefore it should be regarded as confidential and not be made available to any person without our prior approval.
Copyright 2019 / Website / Privacy / Unsubscribe
T: +61 (0)8 9227 7500
This email was sent by HLB Mann Judd, Level 4, 130 Stirling Street, Perth WA 6000 to sophie.gaunt@downergroup.com;