Corona de Tucson Bee Control CompanyClick Here for Money Saving CouponsConnect with us:MenuWhy Use UsPest Control MethodsBee Keeping ExperienceBee ControlHoney Comb RemovalWasp ControlBee ProofingAZ Live Bee RemovalCustomer ReviewsMoney-Saving CouponsCorona de Tucson Bee Control Company520-840-8000Why Use Us?Pest Control MethodsBee Keeping ExperienceBee ControlHoney Comb RemovalWasp ControlBee ProofingAZ Live Bee RemovalCustomer ReviewsMoney-Saving CouponsWhy use us?How are bee removal, honeycomb removal, bee control, wasp control, and hornet control different from general pest control?Corona de Tucson Bee Control Service has had many calls from home and business owners in Corona de Tucson that have used other bee removal, bee control or pest control service companies, asking us to explain to them why they are having repeated bee infestations or wasp or hornet infestations. Many have said, even though they have had their bee problems treated by otherCorona de Tucson pest control or Corona de Tucson bee removal or Corona de Tucson bee control service companies, they still continue to get bee hives back; sometimes more than once a year at the same place or in close proximity. There is good reason for this; the bee removal and/or honeycomb removal were not done properly and there was little or no attempt to address the additional bee pheromone problem or wasp pheromone problem or hornet pheromone problem at the site.Generally, the callers always describe the work that was done by the other companies as follows: "A service technician showed up, sometimes not even wearing a bee suit or having a ladder, spent 10 to 20 minutes, and sprayed the opening the bees were flying in and out of. Essentially, I paid for someone to spray a can of insecticide, don't know what, at the opening and leave a couple of pest strips or sticky boards at the entrance to the sites. I spent a good amount of money with them and the bees never went away or they came back within a short period of time. I called the company I used back, and they told me I had a new problem and they wanted to charge me again for a new service." In many cases, the company either denied service or returned three or four times without success and then they refused to do anymore." Eventually, because of this, we'll get called or the pest control company refers the property owner to us. We at Corona de Tucson Bee Control Service are internationally known bee removal, bee control, wasp control, hornet control and honeycomb removal specialists. Unlike pest control companies this work is not a sideline for us, it is all we do. We specialize in bee removal, bee control, wasp control, hornet control and honeycomb removal and are the best in the business.African honeybee colonies are always dangerous to handle, sometimes lethal, and can cause tremendous damage to Corona de Tucson homes and commercial building structures if not treated properly. Improper methods worsen the damage and lead to future bee problems. Bee pheromone, a marker scent the bee colony deposits at the site, does not go away on its own and cannot simply be scrubbed away with soap and water. A passing swarm can pick up the marker from a considerable distance away and will try to re-occupy a former bee site before it will go anywhere else. After a bee colony extermination, honeycomb, if not removed properly, will immediately start attracting robbing bees from other local colonies and begin liquefying and melting down. Honeycomb meltdown can saturate building materials like drywall and insulation, cause wet rot to framing structures, cause mold and attract other unwanted pests and spread pheromone scent throughout your walls making the problem much larger and considerably worsen the damage to your Corona de Tucson home or property rated lightly by companies professing to provide bee eradication, bee extermination, bee removal or honeycomb removal services. Many pest control companies in Corona de Tucson are inexperienced or treat a bee problem as they would any other insect problem. Many Corona de Tucson companies that advertise under bee removal services are not licensed with the Office of Pest Management, State of Arizona, or they are really just pest control companies advertising under a pseudonym name. We are specialists at bee control, wasp control, wasp removal, hornet control, bee eradication, bee extermination, bee removal and honeycomb removal and our methods and techniques are unique and were developed from our professional beekeeping heritage.We are professional Corona de Tucson beekeepers which specialize in bee control, wasp control, wasp removal, hornet control, bee eradication, bee extermination, bee removal and honeycomb removal and can testify to the number of complaints and jobs we have taken as a result of poor professional practices in the bee removal and bee control industry. Bees seriously damage your building structure and improper methods worsen the damage. When you contact a company that advertises bee removal or bee control or wasp control services or honeycomb removal, ask a lot of questions about their experience, licensing status with the Office of Pest Management, State of Arizona Department of Agriculture, and about what they intend to do for the price they quote. With bee removal or bee control services and wasp control and hornet control services, and to avoid re-infestations, like anything else, you often get what you pay for. Don't risk the disaster of a poorly done job. Call Corona de Tucson Bee Control Service first and get the facts!Bees In The NewsAbout UsBee control in Corona de Tucson honey bee removal and African killer bee control, honeycomb removal, and wasp removal and wasp control. It is ALL we do, not a sideline like all of our pest control competitors. Certified, Bonded, Licensed, Insured | OPM License # I 5180 B | ADOA Cert. # TO-893Privacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 | All Rights ReservedPartner Linkswww.aaabeeremoval.comwww.aaabeekeepers.comwww.arizonabeeproducts.com