Publish to the course directory
Skip to main content
Tell us whether you accept cookies
We use cookies to collect information about how you use GOV.UK. We use this information to make the website work as well as possible and improve government services.
Accept all cookies
Set cookie preferences
Publish to the course directory
beta
This is a new service – your
feedback will help us to improve it.
Publish to the course directory
Use this service to add and edit courses and T Levels that appear on the
National Careers Service website
and the
T Levels website.
You cannot use this service to add information about apprenticeships.
To do this, you’ll need to
set up an apprenticeship training provider account
instead.
You can use this service if you’re a learning provider contracted by the
Education and Skills Funding Agency
and you provide courses in England for people aged 16 and over.
Start now
How to publish a course
To create an account to publish to the course directory:
1. Create a DfE Sign-in account.
2. Request access to your organisation using your DfE Sign-in account.
3. Once the DfE team approves your request, email
support@coursedirectory.org.uk to request access.
4. We will then review your request and give you access to the service if you meet the requirements.
Your contact details
We’ll show the contact details for your organisation next to information about the T Levels or courses that you ask us to publish.
We use the contact details that are listed on the
UK Register of Learning Providers (UKRLP).
Please keep your contact details up to date with UKRLP.
If UKRLP do not have your contact details, your courses might not display on the website.
You can add or change your primary contact details directly with the
UK Register of Learning Providers (UKRLP).
Related content
Find a course
T Levels and industry placements
Find schemes for your business
The UK Register of Learning Providers
Find a learning aim
Contact the course directory support team
You can email or phone us if you need help.
Email:
support@coursedirectory.org.uk
Phone:
0844 811 5073 Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm
Find out about call charges
Support links
Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy notice
Terms and conditions
Information sources
Contact us
All content is available under the
Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
© Crown copyright