Galaxy Access Control | Access Control Systems | Security - Galaxy Access Control
Products
Access Control
Hardware
Software
Mobile Apps
Badging
Integrations
Cloud Concierge
Intercom
Solutions
Commercial
Education
Government
Healthcare
Multi-Tenant
Resources
Data Sheets
Solution Sheets
A&E Docs
Newsletter
Support (Open)
Blog
Partners
Certified Partners
Technology Partners
Developers
Training
About
Careers
Contact
Select Page
A Global Leader in Access Control Systems.
Watch Video
Galaxy Access Control offers cutting-edge solutions to your security challenges. Our systems are customized for your needs and installed by factory trained and certified partners around the world.
Organizations of every shape and size trust Galaxy Access Control with the safety and security of their people and assets.
Here are just a few of the many industries we serve:
Commercial
Learn More
Education
Learn More
Government
Learn More
Healthcare
Learn More
Multi-Tenant
Learn More
Trusted Worldwide.
Galaxy Control Systems is a global leader in the access control industry. Established in 1974, Galaxy represents the evolution of Digital Systems Corporation, an award-winning defense contractor that developed a surveillance and tracking system for the US Military. Our team of specialists ensures that every Galaxy access control product is designed for maximum flexibility and unsurpassed quality.
The key benefits of Galaxy Control Systems are:
Privately Held Company
Certified & Professionally Trained International Dealer Network
Committed to In-House Design and Manufacturing
Free Live 365 x 24/7 Technical Support
Personalized Customer Relationships
The intensive research and development from this program produced many technological discoveries and breakthroughs, including the technology that led to the development of one of the security industry’s first intelligent access control panels.. and the creation of Galaxy Control Systems.
The same results-driven culture that made Digital an exemplary defense contractor is mirrored at Galaxy Control Systems today. We pride ourselves, not only on the quality of our products but also on the quality of our employees. It takes great people who share a common vision –from design and production to sales and customer service — to produce great results. We have those people; just see the results we achieve.
Control Access From Anywhere.

Software
With a user interface that’s easy to operate and system features that deploy in any combination, System Galaxy software easily fits any customer.
Learn More

Mobile App
Our mobile applications allow an operator to control door locks, control crisis mode, as well as monitor and report cardholder activity from a smartphone.
Learn More

Cloud Concierge
Backed by cloud infrastructure, our services live in the cloud where you can manage your business anywhere, at any time.
Learn More
y
Intercoms
Professional grade IP-Based Intercoms for Commercial and Residential applications.  These units can be integrated into the Cloud Concierge platform to offer a complete audio, video, and access control solution.
Learn More

Video Integrations
We offer a full list of video integrations for on-premise as well as cloud installations.  These allow the user to operate from a single platform for a fully integrated solution.
Learn More

Badging
Create professional, durable ID Cards and badges using any combination of graphics, logos, photos, and data. Customize badge designs to distinguish between employees, vendors, visitors, etc.
Learn More
Latest News
Welcome to the New GalaxySys.com!
Apr 11, 2021 | NewsWelcome to our new website and online experience! Within these pages, you’ll find more ways to interact with our team, explore our services, and improve the security of your organization. We’ll be adding more great content, photos, and video on a regular basis, so be...
Updated Event Schedule 2021
Apr 11, 2021 | News2021 Galaxy Dealer Conference Oct 26-28 Hyatt Regency-Clearwater, FL ISC West Jul 19-21 Sands Expo, Las Vegas, NV
FREE Reporting Tool
Apr 14, 2020 | NewsValued Galaxy Partners: Galaxy is proud to offer a FREE reporting tool to utilize in your buildings during this COVID-19 situation. This tool can be quickly downloaded and used to track individuals based on which readers they signed into and when. The reporting tool...
« Older Entries
View More
Copyright © 2021 Galaxy Control Systems  |  Privacy Policy