Home | DEEKAY MARINE SERVICES PVT LTD
Menu
Toggle Menu
Home
About Us
Products
Our Clients
Contact Us
DEEKAY MARINE SERVICES PVT. LTD.
We Bring in Technology and Keep it Alive
View Details
Autonomous Surface Vehicles
ASV
View Details
Combined Bathymetry & Side Scan Sonar
6205
View Details
Remotely Operated Vehicle
ROV
View Details
Side Scan Sonar System
4200
View Details
Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler
ADCP
View Details
Portable ROV
AQUABOTIX
View Details
Underwater acoustic recorders
Real-time systems
View Details
User Friendly
consumers can access our services requests 24 hours a day.
Quality
DEEKAY MARINE SERVICES PVT. LTD. understands the importance of creating value for our clients and we believe technical solutions are essential to streamlining business operations..
Vision
Customer is the single focal point of all our business processes. We aim to become the preferred choice of our customers and their first point of contact for all their new requirements and in the range of products & services we deal in.
Our Mission
Our Mission is to provide innovative, practical & top quality Products and Services that improve business solutions and give our customers a competitive edge in the market.  We measure our success with the success of our Customers
Through a Long Term commitment to the mission.
About Company
Our History
Quality Policy
Company established early 1980 to provide support and Services to marine industries in India.
The company is involved in various marine sectors such as Hydrography,Oceanography, Engineering and Marine surveying services to Various Organizations.
The Company has a team of qualified professionals who are responsible for undertaking their respective areas such as sales and services of equipment installed onboard ships, Research Institutes and Engineering/ Construction.
We have the responsibility of Maintenance of highly specialized equipment supplied by our various OEM by way of Annual Maintenance Contract with the customers. We are
please to confirm that in addition company is specialized in installation and commissioning of Equipment. We have a service centre located at Mumbai to
undertake the above services, which is 24 x 7 customer support facility to have minimum downtime.
" We will provide defect free products and services on time every time with an emphasis on continuous improvement with a goal of achieving customer satisfaction."
Featured Products
The company enjoys the privilege in providing services on behalf of following overseas manufacturers for the various equipment mentioned here in.
All
Video
EdgeTech’s 6205
Side Scan Sonar Systems
Sub-bottom Profiling System
Current Velocity Meters
Sound Velocity Profilers
Wave and Tide Gauges
Conductivity Temperature Depth Profilers
EdgeTech 4600 Underwater Animation
SBE pH Sensor Calibration
Long-Term Deployment with Sea-Bird Electronics Webinar
EdgeTech - 4125 Side Scan Sonar Demonstration
Our Clients
We are pleased to provide you some of the names of the organizations to whom we are presently providing such services:
Home
Downloads
Careers
Privacy
Contact Us
www.deekaymarine.com  All rights reserved - 2017 © Design & Developed by EaglehITech Pvt. Ltd.