Home
Home
Menu
About
Locations
Home
Menu
About
Locations
Search by typing & pressing enter
YOUR CART
Sign in now!
Email/ID *
Password *
Submit
﻿always expect
GREAT TASTE, GOOD TIMES
Here at Barney’s Burgers we take pride in the quality of the meat used for each and every burger. If it’s not perfect and grilled just the way you ordered it, we won’t send it out.  We guarantee the burger delivered to your table is the best burger you could have ordered.
SEE OUR FRESH INGREDIENTS
local craft
BARLEY & HOPS
No good burger is complete without that refreshing taste of local Bounder craft beer. We have over 20 beers on tap, and a full bar for your liquior lovers. From Bud light to Whiskey, we have the liquids to cwinch your thrist.
SEE OUR BEER LIST
only the best
BURGERS & SIDES
Our menu ranges from your old school to some mind blowing custom burgers and sides.
Classic Cheese BurgerBaconator BurgerSlap Your Face BurgerFrench FiesBoiled PeanutsChili Slices
$13$15$12$6$2$2
fresh fries
ONLY THE BEST POTATOES HERE
Our potatoes come fresh from the most awesome places in Idaho. We only use the best possible oils to fry them in. No soggy flimsy fires here, we serve only the best. Crisp golden fries combined with our special seasoning and salt. Fries are standard with every order, and if you didn’t get your fill there, we also have the best boiled peanuts in the world. Yes we said world. ​Come give us a try and see what everyone in Pearland is talking about our meat. We have a full menu of over 10 different handcrafted burgers, 5 different ways you can get your fries, 20 milkshake flavors, and over 14 sides including Mac & Cheese. So stroll down, have a seat, and experience the best burger. ​Your mouth will thank you later.
WE USE ONLY THE FRESHEST INGREDIENTS
come dine in
HOURS & LOCATION
Monday — Friday11am — 9pm
Saturday12pm — 6pm
Sunday​12pm — 5pm
Barney's Burgers1327 East Halik Street​Pearland, TX 99387​(818) 033-2016
Powered by
Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started