Department for Transport Sourcing Portal
View Opportunities
Crown Commercial Service
GOV.UK
Contracts Finder
SIMAP
Procurement at DfT
What the Department for Transport does
We work with our agencies and partners to support the transport network that helps the UK’s businesses and gets people and goods travelling around the country.
We plan and invest in transport infrastructure to keep the UK on the move.
DfT is a ministerial department, supported by 24 agencies and public bodies.
Read more about what we do
Department for Transport Sourcing Portal
This website provides a suite of collaborative, web-based tools that enable procurement professionals and suppliers to conduct the strategic activities of the procurement lifecycle over the internet.
It provides a simple, secure and efficient means for managing tendering and quotation activities reducing the time and effort required for both buyers and suppliers.
IMPORTANT  - Find a Tender Service (FTS) comes in from 1st January 2021, please click the following link to find out more. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/procurement-policy-note-0820-introduction-of-find-a-tender.
Click here to register!
Click here for details on how to register
NOTE that you will require a DUNS number (Dun and Bradstreet) to register. If you do not know your number access the following link to find yours: https://www.dnb.co.uk/duns-number/lookup.html, click on the D-U-N-S number section. If a DUNS number is not found there is guidance on how to acquire one in the same place.
Login
I cannot access my account
Internal User Access
Supplier Access
eSourcing Helpdesk
Need assistance?
Please contact our eSourcing Helpdesk:
Phone: 0800 069 8630
Supplier Assistance / Live Chat
DfT Accessibility Statement
Click here for details of the DfT Accessibility Statement
WARNING: Do not proceed if you are not an Authorised User. This application is protected by appropriate security measures. Access to and use is restricted to Authorised Users only. Any attempt to use this system in a manner not authorised or any attempt to alter, destroy or damage any Information contained within it may constitute a breach of the provisions of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 and/or other legislation and shall leave the user liable to both criminal and civil proceedings. It is strictly forbidden to attempt to access this system using any third party's logon identity. Anyone using this system consents to active monitoring for security policy compliance purposes.
System Requirements