DHL4YOU - DHL International GmbH
Your customer service line
+371 66010000
EN
LV
We're sorry but DHL4YOU application doesn't work properly without JavaScript enabled. Please enable it to continue.
Hello, welcome to DHL Express Latvia SIA Customs
Order shipping
Get an instant calculation and pay with you credit/debit card or PayPal.
More here
DHL Express Latvia SIA
DHL Customs Department:
+371 66010000
Availability: working days between 9:00am and 17:30pm
dhl4you.lv@dhl.com
Legal Notice |
Privacy Notice |
Consent Settings
© 2025 DHL International GmbH. All rights reserved.
We are using cookies for the best experience on our websites. For more information visit our document Information about cookies on the "Cookies settings" menu. By clicking "Accept all cookies" you agree with our use of all the types of cookies. If you want to alter the types of cookies, you can do this in our "Cookies settings" menu. By clicking "Deny cookies" you are refusing all cookies, except cookies necessary for website functionality.
Your Privacy We are using cookies on our website to ensure that you will receive the best experience while using our website. These cookies might relate to your information, your preferences or your device. The information does however not usually directly identify you, but it could provide you with a more personalized and better web experience. Since we do respect your privacy, you can choose to not allow some type of cookies. For more information on the types of cookies and the possibility to change the default cookies setting, click on the heading of the individual types of cookies. Blocking some types of cookies may impact your user experience on our website. For further information on how we process your personal data (cookies) please click on the section "More information about cookies". It is necessary to create a cookie to remember the choices you have made within our cookie privacy menu as well. This is going to have a couple of consequences: 1) If you delete all your cookies you will have to update your preferences with us again; and 2) If you use a different device or browser, you will have to tell us your preferences again
Always active
Strictly nesessary cookies
These cookies are necessary for the functioning of our website and can therefore not be switched off in our systems. These cookies do not [collect or] store any personal identifiable information. They are usually a response to your actions and related to a request for services such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in the forms. You can set your browser to block these cookies, but some parts of our website will not work.
More information about cookies HERE
Accept and close
Cookies settings
Save settings