ICANN Verification Required
You have reached a domain that is pending ICANN verification.
As of January 1, 2014 the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) will mandate that all ICANN accredited registrars begin verifying t
he Registrant WHOIS contact information for all new domain registrations and Registrant contact modifications.
Why has this domain been suspended?
The email address has not been verified
This is a new domain registration and the Registrant email address has not been verified.
Resend the verification email
----- OR ------
The Registrant contact data for this domain was modified but still requires verification.
Specifically the first name, last name, email address, physical address, and/or phone number have been changed and never verified.
Log in to your name.com account
Frequently asked questions
Once the suspension is removed, when will my website come back online?
We estimate it may take 24 to 48 hours for the website to come back online.
Why was my domain suspended?
ICANN requires that the domain registrant's contact information or changes to the registrant's WHOIS information be verified within 15 calendar
days. If the data is not verified in this timeframe, ICANN mandates that the website be suspended pending the verification.
How can I remove the suspension on my domain?
The suspension of the domain will be removed after the WHOIS information is successfully verified. Please update the WHOIS information with comp
lete and accurate contact details through your domain service provider. Once updated you will receive a new verification email.
Who is ICANN?
ICANN is responsible for the coordination of the global internet's systems of unique identifiers and, in particular, ensuring its' stable and se
cure operation. ICANN maintains policies and specifications for registrars and registrants to abide by.
What is WHOIS?
WHOIS services provide public access to data on registered domain name holders. Registered name holders are required to provide accurate and rel
iable contact details to their Registrar to update WHOIS data for a registered name.