EYE APPEAL
Doctors
Services
Insurance
Testimonials
Contact
Book an Appointment
DoctorsServicesInsurance
TestimonialsContactBook an Appointment
Scroll
WELCOME TO EYE APPEAL OPTICAL
|  COVID-19 UPDATES  |For the safety of our valued patients, staff, and Doctors, our office hours will be limited to:Monday - Friday | 09:00 AM - 5:00 PM As usual, our commitment to our valued patients safety sits at the top of our priorities. In order to protect our patients and staff, there will be some changes when you schedule your next appointment. For the time being, all appointments will be managed to allow for social distancing between patients. This might mean that there will be fewer options when scheduling your appointment. We also will be doing our absolute best to allow greater time between patients in order to reduce waiting time for you, and to reduce the number of patients in the reception area, as well. We look forward to seeing you again and are happy to answer any questions you have about the steps that we are taking. Please contact our office at (312)-782-7833 to schedule your appointment!
SERVICING CHICAGO WITH PREMIER VISION CARE FOR OVER 50 YEARS. Conveniently located in the Loop of Downtown Chicago for all of your optical needs! Just right off the Washington and Wabash CTA stop, and a short 5 minute walk from the Metra Millennium Station, our experienced office staff, opticians, and doctors are here to help you with all of your optical questions, needs, and concerns. All while delivering the best experience to all of our patients.Our opticians and staff are always happy to assist you in your needs. Whether it is to schedule a yearly exam, order contact lenses, or even help find the right frames for you!We strive to make your experience at our office efficient, friendly,and fun.
Our Office Eye Appeal Optical has been serving the Chicagoland area for well over 50 years and maintains to provide top notch service to our patients. Patients who were children when they first started coming to our office, now bring their children and grandchildren. Brian Ortiz O.D and Charles Bertoia O.D encompass the team at Eye Appeal Optical. All bring decades worth of excellent eye care. Services include comprehensive ocular exams for all age ranges, contact lens fittings, and specialty fits and services for:Irregular PrescriptionsKeratoconusMultifocals AstigmatismCo-management of Lasik & other refractive surgeriesTreatment of dry eye, eye infections, styes, and general red & irritated eyes Emergency eye care Co-management of ocular disease School vision screenings Drivers license vision screening
Home
Brief
Terms & Policies
(312) 782-7833 • 111 N Wabash Ave. Suite 1111 Chicago, IL 60602Powered by Squarespace