eBay Customer Service Phone Number (866) 961-9253, Email, Help Center
Skip to content
PissedConsumer
Reviews
Categories
All Categories
Media
Auctions and Marketplaces
Social Media and Networking
Games and Movies
Footwear and Clothing
Software
Food Delivery
Companies
All Companies
Amazon
Temu
Google
Facebook
YouTube TV
Netflix
Garena Free Fire
Write review
For Business
Login
Auctions and Marketplaces
eBay
48359
Customer Service
Updated on 03/19/2025
Contact eBay Customer Service
Reviews
0
Contacts
Q&A
Advertisements
eBay Phone Numbers and Emails
Toll-Free Number:
(866) 961-9253
For Hacked Accounts
Call customer service
Send Message
Customer Service:
(866) 348-9519
Resolution Center
(866) 540-3229
Report Fraud:
(866) 643-1607
Headquarters:
(408) 376-7400
eBay Emails:
Accessibility
Customer Service
Developers Program, eBay Main Street, Report Compromised Ebay Employee Account
Investors/ Franchising
Jobs/ Career
Legal
Employee Privacy Inquiries, Notice of Claimed Infringement, Privacy Inquiries, Security Law Inforcement
Media
Press Inquiries
Report Fraud
Report Spam Email
askethics@ebay.com
Reporting Ethics Issues
help@ebay.com
copyright@ebay.com
Copyright Infringement Inquiries
Is this your business?
More phone numbers and emails
Less phone numbers and emails
Advertisements
How to Contact eBay?
Winnie Murugi
PissedConsumer Reporter
What Is EBay’s Customer Service Email Address?
To contact the eBay support team by email, log in to your account, click the “Help & Contact” button at the bottom of the page, and select the “Contact us” option. After picking the closest topic to your issue, go to this page, and on the left-side menu, choose to email eBay customer service team. You will be asked to fill out the online form with your issue. The company informs that they will reply to your email enquiry within 24 hours.
How To Contact EBay By Phone Number?
There is a dedicated eBay phone number for fraud assistance:1-866-540-3229. The company notes that you should only call this number if you have experienced fraud, otherwise, if you call it for other issues the customer representatives on the line will not be able to assist you. For the technical support, customers can call at 1-866-961-9253. They also notify their customer that the eBay phone number: +1 866-540-3229 is no longer in service. Company warns their customers of long wait times from time to time.
Can I Contact EBay Via Social Media?
Customers can contact eBay via different social media platforms, including Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. To contact eBay on social media, you can send a direct message or post a public question or concern on the company’s social media accounts. eBay social media team will then work to respond promptly to the inquiry. However, response times may vary depending on the volume of inquiries.Regarding which social media channel is best for contacting eBay ultimately relies on the preference of the customer. A dedicated eBay customer service page on Twitter @AskeBay is a preferred option for customers who need immediate assistance. Twitter is a popular platform for customer service inquiries known for its fast-paced and real-time interactions, so it might be helpful to contact eBay support there. Additionally, you may get a company response by messaging eBay on Facebook and Instagram.
How Do I Contact EBay Customer Support Through Live Chat?
To contact eBay’s customer service through the live chat feature, log in to your eBay account, and click the “Help & Contact” button at the bottom of the page. Then choose the topic closest to your request and follow the link. At the bottom of the page, you will find the section “Need more help?” Click the “Chat with us” button and follow the instructions. In addition, you can also go to chat with the assistant through the “How can we help you today?” page. Scroll the page down and repeat all the steps above. eBay’s automated chat feature is available 7 days a week from 9 am to 6 pm CET.
How To Contact EBay For Refund?
To request a refund on eBay, you can log in to your eBay account, click the “Help & Contact” button at the bottom of the page, and select the “Contact us” option. From there, you should choose “Returns & Refunds.” Look through the suggested article and select the one that is closest to your issues. On the next “Help yourself” page, you can either contact eBay via email and chat or choose the necessary article. If you can’t find the answer, go to “Need more help?” at the bottom of the page.
What Are EBay’s Customer Service Hours?
eBay customer support team operates 24/7.
How Do I File A Complaint With EBay Customer Service?
To file a complaint with eBay customer service, go to the “Help” page on the eBay website.
How Do I Contact A Bidder On EBay?
To contact a bidder on eBay, do the following:1) Select the "Advanced Search" option.2) Filter the search "By bidder".3) Type in the bidder's username to start the search.4) Click on the bidder's username to visit their profile.5) Click "Contact member" to get in touch with the bidder.
eBay Customer Service Overview
The aggregated data is based on calls made from PissedConsumer.com website and questionnaires provided by PissedConsumer.com users.
eBay Customer Service is rated at 1.6 out of 5. Consumers who contact the company are mostly dissatisfied. More commonly used way of contact is by phone.  Source Distribution      96% phone 4% email    The best phone number to call eBay is 8669619253. 56% of consumers used this number to address their issues and concerns. Meanwhile, 44% of users reported contacting a real person successfully by dialing the phone number 8663489519. The average hold time is up to 3 minutes. The longest wait times are on Monday, while the shortest are on Sunday. The average call time is 3 minutes. Be prepared for the call as eBay may ask you for the following information to identify you as a customer: first and last name, email or order id or tracking no.
View full overview ›
eBay Overview
The aggregated data is based on calls made from PissedConsumer.com website and questionnaires provided by PissedConsumer.com users.
eBay Customer Service is rated at 1.6 out of 5. Consumers who contact the company are mostly dissatisfied. More commonly used way of contact is by phone.  Source Distribution      96% phone 4% email
The best phone number to call eBay is 8669619253. 56% of consumers used this number to address their issues and concerns. Meanwhile, 44% of users reported contacting a real person successfully by dialing the phone number 8663489519.
The average hold time is up to 3 minutes. The longest wait times are on Monday, while the shortest are on Sunday. The average call time is 3 minutes.
Be prepared for the call as eBay may ask you for the following information to identify you as a customer: first and last name, email or order id or tracking no.
People call eBay mainly because of request for information, payments and charges.
7% of the consumers who called the company’s customer support stated that their issues were resolved.
Most customers feel very satisfied after talking to customer service representatives.
The best email to contact eBay is help@ebay.com. 43% of customers use this email address to address their issues and concerns.
Customers evaluated the effort they needed to make to contact customer service as neither easy nor difficult.
Close
Contact Information
eBay Website:
www.ebay.com
eBay Help Center:
Visit contact page
Corporate Office Address:
eBay Inc.
2025 Hamilton Ave.
San Jose,
California
95125
United States
Help in Social Networks:
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Linkedin
Youtube
Other Info (opening hours):
Customer Service Hours (PT):Monday - Sunday: 6:00am - 6:00pmOther Locations:eBay (UK) Limited1 More London PlaceLondon, SE1 2AFUnited KingdomeBay GmbHAlbert-Einstein-Ring 2-614532 Kleinmachnow GermanyeBay Canada Limited240 Richmond St. W, 2nd Fl., Ste 02-100Toronto, ON, M5V 1V6Canada
More contact details
eBay Customer Service Reviews
1.6 / 5
Poor
See all 48.4K reviews
Guest-6504381
Mar 19, 2025
Accepted my money and did not deliver the product
Ebay Seller email address - McQueensbargain took my money and sent an that my order was shipping on 2/11/25 - Item number 305604****92; order number 02-12***-***** which has not arrived. I sent a message to the seller on March 10, 2025 requesting a refund for a product I never received and the seller never responded.This is theft and fraud. To date I still have not received a refund.Ebay need to have a direct customer service phone number available to paying customers. Still need my refund and there has been no one from Ebay to protect the consumer from this type of poor service.
Read full review
Kayela Qfm
Mar 6, 2025
Item delivered but not paid for.
Never got to speak to a person. All automated and very difficult to navigate to a representative. Will attempt again next week when I have a whole day to spend on the phone.
Read full review
Kamile Oql
Mar 5, 2025
Excellent customer service.
5.0
EBay customer service always exceeds my expectations.This call was no exception.They have excellent customer service.
Read full review
Guest-6468843
Mar 2, 2025
Account immediately suspended, reactivated, then permanently banned without explanation
I opened an account, listed a flashlight, had my account immediately suspended. No reason given.Contacted customer support, talked with the helpful rep who specifically stated "there's no reason given for you suspension. I'll submit an appeal." Appeal accepted, account reinstated.I then list several items (again, mostly flashlights), later that day I got an email stating I'm personally banned permanently from ebay.
Read full review
How Good is eBay's Customer Service?
Randy R Knd
Randy R Knd
Feels Disappointed
|
Mar 16, 2025
Terrible the worst experience ever
Read full quote
Tycho Ngi
Tycho Ngi
Feels Disappointed
|
Mar 14, 2025
Up until this point I haven't had any problems but on March 1st I placed an order and never received my purchase
Read full quote
Tuyet Ohp
Tuyet Ohp
Feels Disappointed
|
Mar 11, 2025
***
Read full quote
Eustace Gnj
Eustace Gnj
Feels Disappointed
|
Mar 07, 2025
You need to be able to talk to a real person!
Read full quote
Judie Iij
Judie Iij
Feels Disappointed
|
Feb 04, 2025
Got no help,talked to no one.Got absolutely no where, will attempt it again
Read full quote
Judy B Low
Judy B Low
Feels Disappointed
|
Jan 29, 2025
They do not have a phone number anymore. It’s frustrating I can’t speak with someone
Read full quote
Summary of eBay Customer Service Calls
430K
TOTALCALLS
02:34
AVG CALLDURATION
7%
ISSUESRESOLVED
Top Reasons of Customers Calls
Consumers Call the Most From
Why Do People Call eBay?
Shipping and Delivery Question:
17h ago
“Package has not arrived”
1d ago
“Find tracking number for purchase”
1d ago
“Haven’t received my package yet”
Request for Information Question:
1d ago
“I need to speak with a customer service representative”
1d ago
“Ask about a return situation”
1d ago
“Confirming auto parts”
Payments and Charges Question:
13h ago
“Dispute”
19h ago
“Fruard charge that have been reported”
19h ago
“Fraud”
Account Question:
18h ago
“You guys sent money to an account that I don't have open anymore”
2d ago
“Lost eBay account”
11d ago
“Account has been suspended”
Return/ Replace Question:
1d ago
“Asking about Returning some items”
3d ago
“Because I've been playing with this order for over a month for my son for his birthday and you guys cannot get your act together enough to send me the correct things you can't fly a helicopter without the remote do you know but with a bummer that is”
5d ago
“Return of the Keyboard it does not go on .”
Product/ Service Question:
23h ago
“I buy a cover for Toyota Highlander 2005 it not good I need a label for retounig”
3d ago
“I did not find the product that I purchased for”
6d ago
“Item purchased February 19 not received yet”
Refund Question:
18h ago
“Cant get refund”
18h ago
“I need a refund for a spa”
18h ago
“I have a refund on wbay”
Cards Question:
1d ago
“Alleged determine what kind of card this is it says eBay and I got it in the mail”
1d ago
“I need to determine what kind of card is it says eBay I got it in the mail and I don't know what to do with it”
1d ago
“I needed to determine what kind of card is. It's a eBay and I got it in the mail.”
Activation/ Cancellation Question:
4d ago
“Cancelar pedido”
12d ago
“Cancel my order”
21d ago
“Cancel”
Staff Question:
2M ago
“Customer service”
2M ago
“Terrible customer service help please”
3M ago
“Talk to customer service”
Website/ Application Question:
14d ago
“Your entire app is *** how can i verify me email THRU an email When I HAVE TO EXIT THE EMAIL TO GO VEIW THE NEW ONE. U GUYS CANT BE THAY *** STUPID”
1M ago
“Site won't load when preview”
4M ago
“$10.00 App savings not working”
Employment Question:
18d ago
“To have my 1099k sent to me”
1M ago
“1099 tax form”
2M ago
“10w2 forms”
Other Question:
19h ago
“Rough time with a seller getting my order to go through.”
19h ago
“Fruard”
22h ago
“Don’t receive my order”
Compare eBay Customer Service To
Companies are selected automatically by the algorithm. A company's rating is calculated using a mathematical algorithm that evaluates the information in your profile. The algorithm parameters are: user's rating, number of resolved issues, number of company's responses etc. The algorithm is subject to change in future.
Amazon Customer Service
2.7 out of 5
Mercari Customer Service
1.4 out of 5
Aliexpress Customer Service
1.4 out of 5
Write a review
Do you have something to say about eBay?
What happened? What can we help you with?
Submit review
Don't show this popup
Call Company
Send Message
eBay
Reviews
Contacts
Q&A
Write a review
About
About PissedConsumer
Press Page
Blog
FAQ for Consumers
FAQ for Companies
Careers
Contact PissedConsumer
Browse
Companies
Reviews
Categories
State Attorneys General Contacts
Services
Business Solutions
List your Business
Tips For Consumers
Tips For Companies
PissedConsumer Club
Advertise with us
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Use
Legal Information
Dispute Resolution (LVP Program)
facebook
youtube
linkedin
instagram
twitter
tiktok
PissedConsumer            © 2025 All
Rights Reserved
Are you sure you want to leave eBay contact page?
Contact eBayContact PissedConsumer
Terms of Service
I agree to TOS
Cancel