General (WFS or WFBNA U.S. Employees)
Skip to content
Back to Previous Page
Home
General (WFS or WFBNA U.S. Employees)
Print
Economics Group Communications and Materials: Approved for Distribution to All Clients.
All Other Distributions: Institutional Client Use Only – Other Distribution or Dissemination is Strictly Prohibited.
This communication (including attachments) is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this information is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please delete this communication without retaining a copy and immediately notify the sender.
This communication is for informational purposes only, is not an offer, solicitation, recommendation or commitment for any transaction or to buy or sell any security or other financial product (unless expressly stated otherwise and/or this communication is subject to 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.71 and 23.605 or Section 15F(j) of the Securities Exchange Act (“SEA”) and any U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rule thereunder), and is not intended as investment advice or as a confirmation of any transaction (except for any transaction confirmation transmitted herewith). This communication does not take into account your particular investment objectives, financial condition, or needs and is not intended to serve as a basis for entering into any transaction or to suggest, through opinion, recommendation, or otherwise, you should enter into a particular transaction or trading strategy.
If this communication relates to a Security-Based Swap (“SBS”), it is intended only for persons that are Eligible Contract Participants (“ECPs”) as defined in Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”) Section 1a(18) and SEA Section 3(a)(65) and the regulations issued thereunder. If you are not an ECP and this communication involves an SBS, please disregard this communication and delete this communication without retaining a copy and immediately notify the sender.
For the purposes of, and to the extent subject to, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) Regulations at 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.71 and 23.605 promulgated pursuant to the CEA, if this communication relates to one or more derivatives transactions regulated by the CFTC, this is a “solicitation” and is not a “research report” as defined in 17 C.F.R. §§ 1.71 and 23.605. For the purposes of, and to the extent subject to, Section 15F(j) of SEA and any SEC rule thereunder, if this communication relates to one or more SBS, this is a solicitation to enter into an SBS and not “research or analysis of the price or market” for an SBS. This communication should not be construed as a recommendation or opinion with respect to any derivative or trading strategy involving a derivative for purposes of CFTC Regulations Part 23 or the CEA or for the purposes of SEC Regulations Part 240 or the SEA.
Swap products subject to the CEA and SBS products subject to the SEA are transacted through and offered out of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“WFBNA”) and physically-settled commodities may be transacted through and offered out of Wells Fargo Commodities, LLC or WFBNA. To the extent any affiliate of WFBNA engages in swap or SBS activities, it does so for the purposes of hedging its own commercial risks or does so in a non-dealing capacity. Other than WFBNA, no subsidiaries of Wells Fargo & Company are in the business of making markets in swaps or SBS, engaging in transactions for the purposes of providing liquidity, or accommodating a market participant’s demand for swaps subject to the CEA or SBS subject to the SEA. Swap and SBS clearing services are offered by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.
If you are a “Special Entity” within the meaning of 17 C.F.R. §23.401(c) and 17 C.F.R. § 240.15Fh-2(d), you are hereby notified that this communication does not, is not intended to and should not be interpreted as an expression of an opinion within the meaning of 17 C.F.R. §23.440 by any person on behalf of Wells Fargo & Company and its subsidiaries as to whether you should enter into any swap or SBS or trading strategy involving a swap or SBS.
Neither the sender, WFBNA nor Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is acting as a municipal advisor and this communication is not intended to be, and does not constitute, advice within the meaning of Section 15B of the SEA.
Any market price, indicative value, estimate, view, opinion, data or other information in this communication is not warranted as to completeness or accuracy, is subject to change without notice, and Wells Fargo Corporate & Investment Banking (“CIB”) accepts no liability for its use or to update or keep it current.
Any views or opinions expressed in this communication are not necessarily those of CIB. CIB or its affiliates may provide views or opinions that differ from those expressed in this communication and also may from time to time acquire, hold or sell a position in the securities or financial products mentioned herein. Expressions of opinion, including any attachments, contained herein are given in good faith, but are subject to change without notice.
Certain business lines within CIB are required to retain certain electronic messages, which may be produced at the request of regulators or in connection with litigation. There is a risk that information contained in electronic messages has been modified, tampered with or corrupted. The accuracy or completeness of the information in this communication is not guaranteed by CIB, nor does CIB assume any liability for any loss which may result from reliance thereon. You should consult your own advisors for opinions on whether to enter into any transaction or trading strategy.
CIB is the trade name for the corporate banking, capital markets and investment banking services of Wells Fargo & Company and its subsidiaries, including but not limited to Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC and a member of NYSE, FINRA, NFA and SIPC, Wells Fargo Prime Services, LLC, a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and member of FINRA, NFA and SIPC, Wells Fargo Securities Canada, Ltd., Member – Canadian Investor Protection Fund, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited and WFBNA London Branch (both of which are authorized and regulated by the U.K. FCA), and WFBNA, a swap dealer provisionally registered with the CFTC, a member of NFA, and a security-based swap dealer conditionally registered with the SEC. You should consult your own advisors for opinions on whether to enter into any transaction or trading strategy. Not all financial products offered under this trade name are securities, and unless otherwise expressly stated, financial products are not bank deposits or FDIC insured. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Wells Fargo Prime Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities Canada, Ltd. and Wells Fargo Securities International Limited are distinct entities from affiliated banks and thrifts.
If this communication relates to an offering of US registered securities (i) a registration statement has been filed with the SEC, (ii) before investing you should read the filed documents, and (iii) you may obtain these documents from your sales representative, by calling 1-800-645-3751 or visiting www.sec.gov.
In Asia, see: https://www.wellsfargo.com/com/disclaimer/ap4.
All messages sent to and from Wells Fargo employees are retained and subject to monitoring, review, and/or disclosure.
Wells Fargo privacy notices at https://www.wellsfargo.com/privacy-security/
California Residents Only: For the categories of personal data that Wells Fargo may collect and how we use it, see Wells Fargo California Consumer Privacy Act Notice at Collection at https://www.wellsfargo.com/privacy-security/notice-of-data-collection/
Equal Housing Lender
LRC-0122
Privacy, Cookies, Security & Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Notice of Data Collection
General Terms of Use
Report Fraud
Sitemap
About Wells Fargo
Careers
Diversity and Accessibility
Home
© 1999 - 2025 Wells Fargo. NMLSR ID 399801