Fireside Lodge
Call Us Today! 1.800.831.2253|[email protected]
Home
About Fireside Lodge
Reviews
View our Rooms
Big Bear News
Big Bear Events
Events Calendar
Contact Us
Better Big Bear Concierge
No slides found, please add some slides
View our Rooms, Suites, & Cabins
No matter what your visit to Big Bear has in store we have accommodations that will be perfect for groups of any size. View our rooms, suites, and cabins today.
Amazing Central Location
Big Bear boasts world class Skiing, Snowboarding, Hiking, Fishing, Fine Dining, Shopping, Day Spas, and more. At Fireside Lodge you are close to it all.
Better Big Bear Concierge
When visiting Big Bear it is easy to miss opportunities that only locals know about. This is why we offer our complimentary concierge so you don’t miss a thing.
The AmenitiesThe LakeThe Location
Fireside Lodge creates a unique guest experience that is specifically tailored to your interests and schedule while staying with us. If you looking for a romantic getaway with that special someone we have rooms with private fireside hot tubs and gorgeous lake views. Or if you are looking to grab some friends and experience our world class Ski and Snowboarding Resorts, we have large capacity rooms that allow you to keep all the fun under one roof. No matter what your trip to Big Bear will entail we have a perfect room, suite, or cabin just for you…
No trip to Big Bear is complete without setting aside some time to enjoy world famous Big Bear Lake. With its scenic views, boating, fishing, swimming, recreational areas, and hiking trails it is truly a sight to see. It is for this reason we are proud to bring views and access to Big Bear Lake to all of our honored guests. Many of our rooms at Fireside Lodge have amazing lake views and all of them are within walking distance of world famous Big Bear Lake. So bring your sense of adventure, and experience “A Better Big Bear” with Fireside Lodge… Silagra
Fireside Lodge is conveniently located minutes from all of the great things that make Big Bear such a desired vacation destination. Fireside Lodge is centrally located to provide you close proximity to Big Bear Lake, Big Bear Village, Snowboarding / , The Cave Concert Venue, Fine Dining, Nightlife, and so much more. For more information about all there is to do when visiting Big Bear please take advantage of our complimentary Better Big Bear Concierge that will take the dates of your stay as well as interest to offer personalized recommendations to make sure you don’t miss a thing…
Check our Room Availability
Check-In *
Check-Out *
Adults *
Children
Promotional Code
Room Type
All1BDRM-1 Bedroom Chalets1BRLK- 1 Bedroom Lake View Suite King1BRLK-1 Bedroom Lake View Suite King1BRLS- 1 Bedroom Lake View SPA Suite Queen1BRLV-1 Bedroom Lake View Spa Suite1BRML-1 Bedroom Lake View Suite1BRSK-1 Bedroom Suite King1BRSQ-1 Bedroom Suite Queen1BSKF-1 Bedroom Suite King Futon1BSS-1 Bedroom Spa Suite2BRLV-2 Bedroom Lake View Cabin2BRML-2 Bedroom Lake View Suite2BRSK-2 Bedroom Suite KingSD-Standard DoubleSK-Standard KingSKGF-Standard King Gas FireplaceSQ-Standard QueenSQGF-Standard Queen Gas FireplaceSTSS-Studio Spa Suite
A Better Big Bear is in The News…
The SunSeptember 12th, 2013Local winemakers seize vineyard’s final harvest
RANCHO CUCAMONGA >> For nearly 60 years, the Johnston Clark Vineyard helped fuel this city’s winemaking heritage, but the 4-acre site on the southwest […]
GayotAugust 27th, 2013Big Bear, the Southern California mountain destination known for its lake and ski resorts, now offers a new adult attraction: Stone Summit Vineyard. At 6,750 feet above sea level, […]
The Press EnterpriseJuly 3rd, 2013Wine lovers know about Napa. They know Sonoma, Santa Ynez, Paso Robles, even Temecula.
David Stone Jr., 49, hopes one day they’ll add Big Bear Lake to the list. No […]
Please take a moment to complete our survey.Take our SurveryDisclaimer Fireside Lodge Disclaimer
Contact Us Directly 40660 Big Bear Blvd Big Bear Lake, CA 92315
Phone: 909.866.2253
Email: [email protected]
Web: https://firesidelodge.net/
Find us on Facebook
Copyright 2020 Fireside Lodge | All Rights Reserved.