Taking Woodstock Tickets & Showtimes | Fandango
Screen Reader Users:
To optimize your experience with your screen reading software,
please use our Flixster.com website,
which has the same tickets as our Fandango.com and MovieTickets.com websites.
Skip to Main Content
Go
Movies
Theaters
FanStore
At Home
Movie News
Sign In/Join
Gift Cards
Offers
Watch Peacock
Offers
Go to previous offer
Watch The Chosen: Last Supper Part 1, 2, and 3
Unlock an exclusive poster
Clock Out & Catch a Movie!
Get $5 off your ticket to A Working Man today
15% off the Disney's Snow White Songs Vinyl
With ticket purchase to Disney's Snow White
Collectors, assemble!
Suit up & get the Captain America Collector Pack
Don't go alone!
Bring a friend to see The Woman in the Yard
Unleash your imagination with A Minecraft Movie
Get the Overworld Explorer Pack
Get $5 off your concessions order
When you buy a ticket to Death of a Unicorn
Unlock an exclusive jetpack in Minecraft
When you buy a ticket to A Minecraft Movie
Round up Your Movie for Kids
Help the Boys & Girls Clubs of America
Go to next offer
Movie Details
Buy Tickets
Add to favorite movies
Taking Woodstock
Movie Rating
R, 1 hr 50 min
RATE MOVIE
Movie More Info
In the summer of 1969, Elliot Tiber (Demetri Martin) divides his time between New York and the El Monaco, his Old-World parents' ramshackle motel in the Catskills. When the proposed venue for the upcoming Woodstock concert falls through, Elliot steps in to play a pivotal role in the generation-defining event by helping organizers secure Max Yasgur's nearby farm and offering the El Monaco as their home base.
GENRE:
Drama,
Music/Performing Arts
RELEASE DATE: Friday, Aug 28, 2009
CAST & CREW
SEE ALL
Previous
Next
Ang Lee
Director
Demetri Martin
Elliot Tiber
Imelda Staunton
Sonia Teichberg
Emile Hirsch
Billy
Liev Schreiber
Vilma
Eugene Levy
Max Yasgur
Jonathan Groff
Michael Lang
Jeffrey Dean Morgan
Dan
Henry Goodman
Jake Teichberg
Dan Fogler
Devon
Paul Dano
VW Guy
Mamie Gummer
Tisha
Kelli Garner
VW Girl
Skylar Astin
John Roberts
Avy Kaufman
Casting
PHOTOS
image gallery of movie photos
Skip the image gallery
Details for In Theaters
Theaters near
Calendar for movie times.  is selected.
Skip to Movie and Times
Movie Times Calendar
Loading calendar
Filter movie times by screen format.  is selected.
Loading format filters…
Know When Tickets Go On Sale
We'll notify you when tickets go on sale in your area and more for Taking Woodstock
SIGNED UP
NOTIFY ME
Featured News
Previous
Next
Frequently Asked Questions
How long is Taking Woodstock?
Taking Woodstock is 1 hr 50 min long.
Who directed Taking Woodstock?
Ang Lee
Who is Elliot Tiber in Taking Woodstock?
Demetri Martin plays Elliot Tiber in the film.
What is Taking Woodstock about?
In the summer of 1969, Elliot Tiber (Demetri Martin) divides his time between New York and the El Monaco, his Old-World parents' ramshackle motel in the Catskills. When the proposed venue for the upcoming Woodstock concert falls through, Elliot steps in to play a pivotal role in the generation-defining event by helping organizers secure Max Yasgur's nearby farm and offering the El Monaco as their home base.
Offers
SEE ALL OFFERS
Don't go alone! image link
Don't go alone!
Buy 1 ticket to Drop, get 1 ticket free (equal or lesser value, up to $15 ticket price and fees)
LEARN MORE
Clock Out & Catch a Movie! image link
Clock Out & Catch a Movie!
Get $5 off when you buy a ticket to A Working Man 9AM-5PM (local time) from 3/24 to 3/28 with code WORKINGMAN.
BUY TICKETS
15% off the Disney's Snow White Songs Vinyl image link
15% off the Disney's Snow White Songs Vinyl
Special discount with your Disney's Snow White ticket purchase
LEARN MORE
From Blocks to the Big Screen! image link
From Blocks to the Big Screen!
Unleash your imagination with the Overworld Explorer Pack, featuring one movie ticket and a Collectible Creeper Popcorn Bucket!
LEARN MORE
New & Coming soon
A Minecraft Movie (2025)
Captain America: Brave New World (2025)
The Chosen: Last Supper Part 1
A Working Man (2025)
The Amateur (2025)
Disney's Snow White (2025)
Death of a Unicorn (2025)
Day of Reckoning (2025)
The Day the Earth Blew Up: A Looney Tunes Movie (2025)
Experience + Explore
Movies In Theaters
Movie Actors and Actresses
Mobile
New For Streaming
Special Offers
Gift Cards
Editorial Features
Awards Watch
Indie Movie Guide
Family Guide
House Of Screams
Movie News
Videos
Movie Trailers
Big Ticket
Movieclips
Photos
Red Carpet Premieres
March Celebrity Birthdays
Award Show Galleries
Follow Us
Fandango on Facebook
Fandango on Twitter
Fandango on Instagram
Fandango on Youtube
Get Fandango Apps
Fandango iOS App
Fandango Android App
Check Gift Card Balance
Refunds & Exchanges
Help
My Account
About Fandango
Careers
Link to Us
Affiliate Program
Fandango Rewards
Site Index
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Terms and Policies
Accessibility
Fandango Affiliated Companies:
Fandango at Home
Movieclips
Rotten Tomatoes
Flixster.com
MovieTickets.com
Advertise With Us
© 2025 Fandango |
A Division of NBCUniversal
Special Offer
Close
Watch The Chosen: The Last Supper Parts 1, 2, & 3 in theaters and unlock an exclusive Judas poster!
Limited time offer. You will be responsible for a $9.99 shipping & handling fee. While supplies last. There is a limited quantity of posters available in this promotion. Log into your account on Fandango.com or the Fandango app before 11:59pm PT on 4/30/25 and purchase tickets to Parts 1, 2 and 3 of ‘The Chosen: Last Supper’. Your purchases do not all have to be in the same transaction, but you must be logged in to the same Fandango account when you buy your tickets to each of Part 1, 2 and 3 to qualify for the offer. Purchases before the announcement of this offer qualify, as long as the same Fandango account was used for all applicable purchases. After April 30, a post-purchase email will be sent to you (at the email associated with your Fandango account) containing a link to the Chosen store to secure the poster (the “Link”). The Link is the only way to access the offer. Your ability to order the poster will expire on 5/15/25 at 11:59 pm PT. You must have, and be logged into, your Fandango account to receive a Link. Fandango is free to join; you must be 18 years of age or older to create a Fandango account. If lost or stolen, Link cannot be replaced. No cash value, except as required by law. Void where prohibited. Not valid with any other offer. Offer valid in U.S. only (excluding U.S. territories and where prohibited by law). Not for resale; void if sold or exchanged. One poster per qualifying customer. You may have to pay taxes additionally. Fandango reserves the right to modify or cancel this offer at any time and without notice. This offer is subject to Fandango’s Terms and Policies at www.fandango.com/terms-and-policies.
BUY TICKETS
SPECIAL OFFER
Close
Get $5 off when you buy a ticket to A Working Man 9AM-5PM (local time) from 3/24 to 3/28 with code WORKINGMAN.
Limited time offer. While supplies last. Log into your account on Fandango.com or the Fandango app and purchase, between 6:00am PT and 5:00pm PT on any of 3/24/25, 3/25/25, 3/26/25, 3/27/25, or 3/28/25, at least one movie ticket to ‘A Working Man’ and use the Fandango Promotional Code WORKINGMAN (“Code”) to receive $5 off your transaction. Code can only be used between the times of day listed above, on the dates listed above. Code expires on the earlier of 5pm PT on 3/28/25 or when ‘A Working Man’ is no longer in theaters. Code must be entered at checkout. You must have, and be logged into, a Fandango account to redeem a Code. Fandango is free to join; you must be 18 years of age or older to create a Fandango account. Limit one per transaction. You may have to pay taxes additionally. One-time use only. Void where prohibited. If lost or stolen, cannot be replaced. Offer is non-transferable and cannot be combined with any other offer or discount. No cash value, except as required by law. Not for resale; void if sold or exchanged. Offer valid in the U.S. only (excluding U.S. territories and where prohibited by law). If cost of purchase is more than maximum value of the Code, then user must pay the difference. Any price difference between total transaction price and maximum value of the Code will not be refunded. Fandango reserves the right to modify or cancel this offer at any time and without notice. This offer and redemption of the Code are subject to Fandango Terms and Policies and Privacy Policy at http://www.fandango.com/terms-and-policies.
BUY TICKETS
Special Offer
Close
Buy a ticket to Disney's Snow White, get 15% off the Disney's Snow White Songs Vinyl!
Limited time offer. Log into your account on Fandango.com or the Fandango app and purchase at least one movie ticket to ‘Disney's Snow White’ between 6:00am PT on 3/10/25 and 11:59pm PT on 4/30/25. Purchaser will receive a post purchase email containing a link to the Disney Music Emporium website that is good for 15% off the purchase of the Disney's Snow White Songs Vinyl. Link expires, and can no longer be used, at 11:59pm PT on 5/7/25. Limit 2 purchases per Code. You must have, and be logged into, your Fandango account to receive the link to the discount. Fandango is free to join; you must be 18 years of age or older to create a Fandango account. This offer is subject to Fandango’s terms and policies at https://www.fandango.com/terms-and-policies and redemption of the Code is subject to Disney’s terms and policies, at https://disneytermsofuse.com/
LEARN MORE
Special Offer
Close
Suit up and get the Captain America Collector Pack, featuring an exclusive Collector's Coin, Limited-Edition Poster, and one movie ticket!
Captain America Collector Pack bundle is non-refundable. While supplies last. Movie ticket is non-refundable and non-exchangeable. You must be 18 years of age or older to purchase a bundle. You must have, and be logged into, a Fandango at Home account to buy your bundle. The exclusive collectible coin and poster will begin shipping in the month of February. Please use a physical address where the collectible coin and poster shipment can be delivered. Once carrier confirms delivery, Fandango is not responsible for lost or stolen deliveries. See full terms and conditions at https://www.fandangomovietickets.com/captainamericapack.
LEARN MORE
Special Offer
Close
Buy 1 ticket to The Woman in the Yard, get 1 ticket free (equal or lesser value, up to $15 ticket price and fees) with code DGAWomanInTheYard
*Limited time offer. While supplies last. There is a limited quantity of Code redemptions allowed in this promotion. When you purchase one or more tickets between 12:01am PT on 3/20/25 and 11:59pm PT on 4/6/25 to see The Woman in the Yard through Fandango.com or the Fandango mobile app, the Fandango Promotional Code DGAWomanInTheYard (“Code”) is good towards the purchase in the same transaction of an additional ticket, for the same showtime, at equal or lesser value (up to a maximum of $15 total ticket price and associated fees and charges). Code must be entered at checkout. Code expires, and can no longer be used, on 4/6/24, or when The Woman in the Yard is no longer in theaters, or when the limit of Code redemptions is reached, whichever comes first. Only valid for purchase of movie tickets made at Fandango.com or via the Fandango app and cannot be redeemed directly at any theater box office. You must have a Fandango account, and be logged into your account, to use the Code. Fandango is free to join; you must be 18 years of age or older to create a Fandango account. If lost or stolen, cannot be replaced. No cash value, except as required by law. Void where prohibited. Not valid with any other offer. Offer valid in U.S. only (excluding U.S territories and where prohibited by law). One-time use only. Not for resale; void if sold or exchanged. You may have to pay taxes additionally. If cost of the ticket (and associated fees and charges) obtained through the Code is more than maximum value of the Code, then you must pay the difference. Any price difference between total transaction price and maximum value of the Code will not be refunded. Limit 1 Code per person. Fandango reserves the right to modify or cancel this offer at any time and without notice. This offer and redemption of the Code are subject to Fandango’s Terms and Policies at www.fandango.com/terms-and-policies.
LEARN MORE
Special Offer
Close
Unleash your imagination with the Overworld Explorer Pack, featuring one movie ticket and a Collectible Creeper Popcorn Bucket!
LEARN MORE
Special Offer
Close
Buy a ticket to Death of a Unicorn at an AMC Theatre, get $5 off your concessions order.
Limited time offer. While supplies last. Offer only valid in participating AMC Theatres. Check https://www.fandangomovietickets.com/AMCTheatreConcessions to see whether your preferred AMC Theatre offers concessions through Fandango. Log into your account on Fandango.com or the Fandango app and purchase, between 12:00am PT on 3/7/25 and 11:59pm PT on 4/14/25, at least one movie ticket to ‘Death of a Unicorn’ at an AMC Theatre for a showtime no later than 4/18/25. Purchaser will receive a post purchase email containing 1 Fandango Promotional Code (“Code”) that is good for $5 towards AMC Concessions for the selected showtime. Code can only be used for the showtime selected, which must be before 4/18/25 at 11:59pm PT. Code must be entered at checkout. Only valid for purchase of concessions at participating AMC Theatres on Fandango.com or via the Fandango app and cannot be redeemed directly at any theatre. You must have, and be logged into, a Fandango account to receive and redeem a Code. Fandango is free to join; you must be 18 years of age or older to create a Fandango account. Limit one per transaction. You may have to pay taxes additionally. One-time use only. Void where prohibited. If lost or stolen, cannot be replaced. Offer is non-transferable and cannot be combined with any other offer or discount. No cash value, except as required by law. Not for resale; void if sold or exchanged. Offer valid in the U.S. only (excluding U.S. territories and where prohibited by law). If cost of purchase is more than maximum value of the Code, then user must pay the difference. Any price difference between total transaction price and maximum value of the Code will not be refunded. Fandango reserves the right to modify or cancel this offer at any time and without notice. This offer and redemption of the Code are subject to Fandango Terms and Policies and Privacy Policy at http://www.fandango.com/terms-and-policies.
LEARN MORE
Special Offer
Close
Buy a ticket to A Minecraft Movie for opening weekend (4/3 - 4/6) and unlock an in-game jetpack in Minecraft!
Limited time offer. Jetpack add-on requires Internet, a valid Microsoft account, and Minecraft: Bedrock Edition, Minecraft for PlayStation, or Minecraft for Nintendo Switch (each sold separately) (excludes Minecraft Java Edition). Log into your account on Fandango.com or the Fandango app between 12:00pm PT on 2/27/25 and 11:59pm PT on 4/6/25 and purchase at least one movie ticket to ‘A Minecraft Movie’ for an opening weekend showtime (4/3/25-4/6/25). Purchaser will receive a post purchase email containing 1 Minecraft Promotional Code (“Code”) that is good for 1 Jetpack add-on. Redeem Code at minecraft.net/redeem by 12/31/25. Then, launch Minecraft and sign in with the Microsoft account used to redeem your Code. Codes are one time use only. Limit: 1 Jetpack add-on per Microsoft account. You must have, and be logged into, your Fandango account to receive the promotional code. Fandango is free to join; you must be 18 years of age or older to create a Fandango account.  Fandango reserves the right to modify or cancel this offer at any time and without notice. This offer is subject to Fandango's terms and policies, at http://www.fandango.com/terms-and-policies. Microsoft is not a sponsor of this offer.  Microsoft may, freely and without liability, remove Character Creator items redeemed through this promotion, suspend or ban accounts, and take other disciplinary or corrective action if Microsoft suspects or believes your account is engaged in fraudulent or abusive activity.  Except as required by law, Codes cannot be redeemed or exchanged for cash and are not refundable. Geography limitations, country and balance restrictions, taxes, and Internet connection fees may apply.  Microsoft Services Agreement (aka.ms/MSA) applies. Minecraft - ESRB Rating: E 10+. Visit www.esrb.org for rating information.
BUY TICKETS
Round up Your Movie for Kids
Close
Round up your movie ticket purchase to the nearest dollar and donate the balance to Boys & Girls Clubs of America. Funds raised through Fandango’s Round Up will be donated to support kids and create special moviegoing adventures for club members and staff.
BUY TICKETS