Kaiser Insurance Online | Kaiser Permanente | Family & Group Plans
Get a Free Quote!
1-888-492-7245
☰
Home
Enroll
Health Plans
Individual & Family Plans
Business / Group Health Plans
Short Term
Vision Plans
Dental Plans
California Group Plans
California HMO Plans
California PPO & Premier Plans
Contact
× Close
Helping You Navigate The System To Get The Coverage You Need
Receive your free online rate quote in just minutes!
Enter your zip code below to get started.
Zip Code
Individual Health Plans
Group Health Plans
Continue
Helping You Navigate The System To Get The Coverage You Need
Receive your free online rate quote in just minutes!
Enter your zip code to get started.
Zip Code
Individual Health Plans
Group Health Plans
Continue
Specializing inBusiness/Group andIndividual/Family Plans
Choosing a health care plan is no easy task. At Kaiser Insurance Online, we work diligently to help you find the plan that is best for your budget and health concerns. Whether you are searching for the appropriate group plans for your corporation or need to find the best healthcare solutions for your family, we are here to help you.
We invite you to request your free online quote today and a member of our team will reach out to you to discuss the appropriate health insurance plans. Should you have any questions beforehand, please feel free to contact us at your convenience.
Help Me With My Insurance
Where You Can Find Us
We are now offering group and individual plans in California*, Colorado, Washington, Oregon, and Georgia. Our Quick Quote system will provide you with an immediate assessment of the cost of your group health needs in the state of California.
We may be reached by email or phone at (888) 492-7245.
You were really great on the telephone. You were very patient, and very knowledgeable regarding options and costs. I appreciate that; it’s often hard to find those skills these days.
Paul B.| Stanford, CA
CA Lic. #0512978
Authorized Agent for Kaiser Permanente®
1-888-492-7245 | gpaul@kaiserinsuranceonline.com
All agents are licensed with the California Department of Insurance and with Covered California.
This web site is owned and maintained by Gordon Paul, which is solely responsible for its content. This site is not maintained by or affiliated with Kaiser Permanente®, and Kaiser Permanente bears no responsibility for its content. The e-mail addresses and telephone numbers that appear throughout this site belong to Gordon Paul, and cannot be used to contact Kaiser Permanente. Gordon Paul is an authorized Agent for Kaiser Permanente and Kaiser Permanente Northwest. “Kaiser,” “Kaiser Permanente”, “Kaiser Foundation Health Plan” and the Kaiser Permanente are registered trademarks or service marks of Kaiser foundation Health Plan Inc., in the United States.
About
FAQs
Privacy Policy
Blog
Copyright © Kaiser Insurance Online 2025. All Rights Reserved.
//TECHYSCOUTS