William Wesley "Denver" Blevins Obit
Oklahoma Cemeteries Website
Click
here
to break out of framesThis information is available for free.
If you paid money for asubscription to get to this site, demand a refund.For any questions pertaining to an individual cemetery, you would need to contact the cemetery sexton / board / caretaker.
William Wesley "Denver" Blevins
© The Verden News
25 July 1958
Submitted by:  Sandi Carter
SERVICES HELD FOR DENVER BLEVINS, MON.
Funeral services for Denver Blevins were held at the First Christian
Church, Verden, on Monday, Jul 21 at 2:30 p.m. with Rev. John Morris, pastor, officiating.  Interment was in the Verden Cemetery with the Hansen Funeral Home in charge of arrangements.
His sudden death early last Friday shocked the entire community as he had apparently been enjoying good health.
Music for the service was rendered by Mr. and Mrs. Harry Dodson, who sang "I Know Who Holds Tomorrow," Miss Linda Griffith "The Lord's Prayer" and Mrs. Hazel Ferris and DeWayne Ferris "Sweet Bye and Bye."  Mrs. Donald Brown accompanied them on the piano.
Casket bearers were Chick Griffit, Dank Pitts, Phelan Mobbs, Bill McVey, Arthur McVey, Harry Dodson, and Bud Clift of Anadarko.
William Wesley (Denver) Blevins was born at Jay, Oklahoma on November 23, 1915 and passed away at his home at about 4 a.m. on July 18 at the age of 42 years, seven months, and 25 days.
He was married to Miss Edna Gay Melot at Wanette, Okla. on May 21, 1935
and to this union three children were born.
The family moved to Verden from Chickasha in January 1953 and Mr. Blevins has owned and operated Blevins and Sons Garage since that time.
Mr. Blevins was a member of the First Christian Church of Verden of which he was an elder.  He was also a member of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows and Rebekah Lodge, was fire chief of the Verden Volunteer Fire Department and was a veteran of World War II.
Survivors include his wife of the home and three sons, Wesley of Verden, and Tony and James Ray of the home; his mother, Mrs. Elsie Fulton of McAlester; his father, William Blevins of Jay, Okla; two sisters, Mrs. Alta Mathis of Bremerton, Washington and Mrs. Juanita Hart of Bloomfield, New Mexico; his grandmother, Mrs. Nittie King of Vinita, Oklahoma and other relatives and friends.
|Misc. Delaware Co. Obits Page| |Delaware County Cemetery Page| |Home|
This page was updated: Thursday, 09-Jan-2025 18:07:18 UTC
This site may be freely linked, but not duplicated in any way without consent.
Format © for the Oklahoma Cemeteries Website
The copyright (s) on this page must appear on all copied and/or printed material.
All rights reserved! Commercial use of material within this site is prohibited!