David Mann - Biography
Skip to Content (Press Enter)
askART
Toggle navigationMenu
askART
Toggle navigationSearch
X
Artists listed by last name:
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ#
Search by:
Recent Auctions
Art for Sale
Advanced Artist Search
Auction RecordsSince 1987
Upcoming at auction
Search by Artist
Sample Auction Records
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Sample Sales Stats
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Sample Artist Signatures
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Help / Contact Us
Research
Search Artists
Search Art for Sale
Search Auctions
Search Auction Houses
Search Galleries / Dealers
Search Museums
Upcoming at Auction
What's my art worth?
Essays
Regional Interests
Artist Groups
Topics
Art Styles
Mediums
Record Stats
Highest auction prices
Record prices by sq inch
Art Glossary
Biographies - write a bio!
Help / Contact Us
Services
Sign Up
Auction Alerts (free)
For Individuals
For Dealers / Galleries
For Auction Houses
For Institutions
Institutions
Museums
Libraries / Schools
Auction Listing Services
Ads on askART
Homepage ads
Artist Pages: Featured Ad
Artist Pages: Art for Sale
Artist Pages: Art Wanted
Alphabet Pages
Help / Contact Us
Subscribe
Sign In
X
Whoa, you've got an older browser! (Or, we've got a glitch...) For a better experience, we recommend a newer browser.
Ok, hide this
Submit a bio
Artist Biography & FactsDavid Mann
Auction RecordsLots (295)
For Sale (2)
Bio/Info
Free
Alerts
Upcoming (5)
Wanted (0)
Related Artists (24)
Pricing my art
Charts (6)
Dealers
(4)
Signatures (29)
Auction RecordsLots (295)
Sale / Wanted (2)
Free
Alerts
Bio/Info
RelatedMore Artists (24)
Pricing my art
Charts (6)
Signatures (29)
David Mann (Born 1948) is active/lives in Utah.  David Mann is known for Indian figure-genre, horse.
A painter of Native American figures and genre as these subjects would appear in everyday life, David Mann does extensive research on the clothing and background objects of his subject matter but does not show actual historical events. Most of his Plains Indians are placed in the context of the mid to late 19th century before they were moved to reservations and could practice the rituals of their culture.Mann was inspired by this subject matter from the time he was a child and had a book illustrated by Alfred Jacob Miller, pioneering painter of western subjects. He was also inspired by Frank McCarthy illustrations he saw in "Life" magazine. Then as a young Mormon church missionary, he was assigned to Indian reservations in the Southwest and lived with the Apache on the San Carlos reservation, the Pimas and Papagos near Tucson, and the Pueblos and Navajos near Albuquerque.He graduated from Weber State University in Ogden, Utah with a major in art education, taught school
...  [Displaying 1000 of 3578 characters.]
Artist bio
Artist auction records.  askART's database currently holds 295 auction lots for David Mann (of which
244 auction records sold and 5 are upcoming at auction.)
Artist artworks for sale and wanted.  There are 2
artworks for sale on our website by galleries and art dealers
.  There are 4
galleries and art dealers listing works of art by David Mann as either "Wanted" or "For Sale"
.
Research resources.  askART lists David Mann in 0 of its research Essays.
David Mann has 29 artist signature examples available in our database.
Similar artists.  There are 24 similar (related) artists for David Mann available:
John Moyers,  Gary Lawrence Niblett,  Jim Norton,  R S Riddick,  R Brownell McGrew,  Robert Pummill,  Roy Andersen,  William Acheff,  Z S Liang,  Herb Mignery,  Jason Rich,  Ray Swanson,  Kenneth Pauling Riley,  Mian Situ,  Oleg Stavrowsky,  Don V (Donald) Crowley,  Terri Moyers,  Melvin Charles Warren,  Fritz White,  Gary Lynn Roberts,  Cyrus Afsary,  Mehl Lawson,  Robert Griffing,  Frank C McCarthy
Sales Stats.
295 auction records.
5 upcoming.
Copyright © 1999-2025 askART.com and underlying auction houses. All Rights Reserved. Digital copying of these images and content strictly prohibited; violators will be subject to the law including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
Facts about David Mann
Biographies
Publications
Keywords
David Mann
Born:  1948
Known for:  Indian figure-genre, horse
David Mann
Shoshone Crossing
Art images copyright© of artist or assignee
Arrow Maker
Art images copyright© of artist or assignee
PreviousNext
A painter of Native American figures and genre as these subjects would appear in everyday life, David Mann does extensive research on the clothing and background objects of his subject matter but does not show actual historical events. Most of his Plains Indians are placed in the context of the mid to late 19th century before they were moved to reservations and could practice the rituals of their culture.Mann was inspired by this subject matter from the time he was a child and had a book illustrated by Alfred Jacob Miller, pioneering painter of western subjects. He was also inspired by Frank McCarthy illustrations he saw in "Life" magazine. Then as a young Mormon church missionary, he was assigned to Indian reservations in the South  ...  Displaying 750 of 3578 characters.
Subscriber Members, please Sign In for artist biographies and for all services.  For non-paying users, good news! Full text bios for all artists are available every Friday.
If you are not currently a member, please See Details about membership.
Contribute to Developing the Biography for David Mann
×
Please note: Artists not classified as American in our database may have limited biographical data compared to the extensive information about American artists.
Creating biographies or improving upon them is a work in progress, and we welcome information from our knowledgeable viewers.
If you feel you have worthwhile information you would like to contribute, the following means of submission is the most efficient. We welcome your involvement!
1.  For Premier Dealers and museums already
registered with askART your best approach is to log in, choose the artist (once
he/she is in your list of artists), and submit your biography there. If you are
a dealer or museum not currently registered, please
click here to register, and then you may select your artist and submit
a biography.
2.  For all others who have useful information
about this artist, please email the information to
registrar@askart.com. Please note: All biographies will be fully
viewable on Fridays, but the rest of the week biographies are available only to
subscribers.
Biography Guidelines
When submitting biographical information, we appreciate your consideration of
the following:
Please keep in mind that askART is not a promotional site, and accordingly
biographical information should not be worded for purposes of 'advertising' an
artist.
Our site is about PAINTERS, SCULPTORS, and ILLUSTRATORS. If you do not know a great deal about the
artist, but have noteworthy information to share, we would welcome you to send
it also to registrar@askart.com. It
is rewarding for all of us to see artists' files grow, and others may be eager
to supplement what you have provided.
Non-Dealers and Museums:
Please introduce your information as follows: "The following biographical
information has been provided by Jane Doe, the niece of the artist."
Dealers and Museums will be automatically credited with a link to their
sites.
Just the facts, please. Our editors are trained to
delete any hype or advertising verbiage such as “most famous,”
“internationally renowned,” “extraordinarily beautiful works.”
If you do not know a great deal about the artist,
answer as many of the following questions as you can. Other persons, seeing
your entry, often add to the data. This is how many of the biographies
grow.
Please include in your biography answers to as
many of the following questions as possible:
What are the subjects and styles (and other distinctive
characteristics) for which the artist’s work is best known?
Is the artist identified with any particular art movements, or
artists, who influenced his or her work?
Where, when, and under whom did the artist receive education and
training?
Can you provide all relevant personal background
information on the artist?
In which Art Organizations was the artist a member?
Can you provide a list of all major museum and artist
association exhibitions? (excluding commercial art galleries).
What awards or other recognition did the artist win?
What museums (name, city, and state) currently hold
works by the artist in their permanent collections?
Required: What are the sources for your
information? For books, list title, author, date of publication. (Optional:
cite number of pages and yes/no if there are color images.) For magazine
articles, cite title of article, author, title of publication, date, and page
number if possible.
Required: the name of the person submitting the
information.
Dealer Note: Please enter books, periodicals and museum
references in the space provided. Do not combine book information with
biography.
There are many strong biographies that you may refer to on our website, such as
Cecilia Beaux, Edward Hopper, and Paul Sample. Please do not submit biographies
with minimal facts or excessively promotional writing such as the following
(unusable) wording:
What NOT to send:
"The artist John Doe is the quintessential master
of light, color, and scene. His brilliant canvases are full of feeling, where
love can be felt through all the senses. Through his skillful brushwork, and
drawing from his life experiences, he creates images where the viewer feels he
has truly become one with the subject. Doe's paintings are sure to be sought by
the discriminating collector. I/we have numerous spectacular works by Doe
available for sale."
We appreciate your participation in askART. If you have any questions
about submitting biographies, please send them to registrar@askart.com
Share an image of the Artist.
Copyright© 2000-2025 askART All Rights Reserved®   |   askART is a registered trademark   |Site Terms
Good news! We do not share your data or cookies with 3rd parties for their ads or markerting!  Privacy Policy
Ok, hide this
Top