ciajfk.com Bruce Campbell Adamson Books/videos whistleblowing author/publisher historical website
Bruce Campbell Adamson PO Box 3511 , Santa
Cruz, CA 95063
COLONEL HAROLD ADAMSON Click: here.
Eve Adamson -- Harold's daughter
died at age 68 on Oct.
8th, 2006. Tennesse Williams
said of Eve "She directed the best version of Cat on A Hot
Tin Roof he had ever seen," on stage.
For Eve Adamson's Memorial
on January 29, 2007 at the Phoenix Theatre click here.
For an extensive biography
of Eve Adamson Playbill obituary (Photo Tennessee Williams
click
here.
For Eve Adamson's New York
Times obituary click here.
REINCARNATION
If I could chain the thoughts that rise
in me, that travel through my brain incessantly that rise within
me like a maddened sea, I'd rival Solomon.
The ever-flaming scripts of gleaming red,
Like messages that come from minds long dead. If I could only
hold them in my head I'd solve eternity. -- Hal Adamson
On Feb. 11, 2006
Harold Adamson was honored by Jazz pianist Eric Reed at the Kennedy
Center (Washington D.C.) in honor of Hal's 100th year of his
birth. Cousin E. Adamson said Eric Reed did a subperb job of
playing Hal's tunes. Eric Reed gave Bruce Adamson credit twice
during the cermonies for help on a video Our Pal Hal. Vice President
Dick Cheney must have heard of it for he turned and shot his
friend on the same day while hunting in Texas. There were no
Grassy Knolls only beer cans. For a complete biography of
Eric Reed and details go to bottom of page. click here.
Eric
Reed Program at Kennedy Center On December 10, 2006 Harold would
have been 100 years old.
Our
Pal Hal: An Affair to Remember a documentary
on Harold Adamson,
Our Pal Hal documentary
Video 40 min. FREE
On
Feb. 24, 2006, Don Knotts passed. Uncle Harold wrote the songs
for The Incredible Mr. Limpet. I Wish I Were A Fish! Photo of Hal and Don Knotts
and Sammy Fain. Three years ago I sent Knotts the video Out Pal
Hal.
For
a complete list of Harold Adamson's songs from movies, click here.
For
other hit songs, click here.
Harold Adamson--Accepted
into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1972; and through his career
had Five Academy Award Nominations 1: Film Suzy 1936; "Did Anyone Ever Tell You" sung by Jean Harlow
and Cary Grant; 2). Film That Certain Age, sung by Deanna
Durbin; "My
Own" 3). Film
Higher and Higher; "I Couldn't Sleep A Wink Last Night" Sinatra's first Oscar
nomination; 4). Film Hit Parade of 1943; "A Change of Heart." 5).
Film An Affair to Reemember song sung by Deborah Kerr and Vic
Domain.
For
Harold Adamson's longest songwriting partner Jimmy McHugh's song
list click here.
H a r o l d ---
C a m p b e l l --- A d a m s o n --
Photo 1928 Harvard
class -- Arms & Legs crossed Below
James Adamson has had to keep his being
a Lord under wraps, it happened in 2010 when J. Adamson passed
on. James Harold Adamson, the grandfather, had dual citizenship
within the US and in England. Who was James Adamson? James was
very much like Santa Claus? Lastex literally touched almost everyone
on earth and James formed The Adamson Brother's company in which his brother Percy
invented Lastex which was the first stretchable clothing of value.
It resulted in key New York State court cases. Click
to view court case.
Click to read review
on The Forbidden Fruit of the Loom on Lastex. Every human on
earth has not heard of this story, how an inventor died by his
own invention.
Bruce, the grandson wrote the following
booklet The Adamson Brother's Conspiracy. You've heard
the original sin, but have you heard of The Forbidden Fruit
of the Loom?
Adamson Family and the invention
of stretchable clothing.
Dupont Family purchased patent for Lastex.
On my dad's side of the family. While on mother's sie of the
family Robert Easton was dialect coach for Bill Kingsley as a
New York mobster who won an Oscar for his role as Gandhi.
Click to View
Cover on Lastex
James Harold Adamson (1932-Palm Beach)
built over 300 estate homes at Larchmont Shores, in Westchester
County, New York. One of the streets Douglas Lane was named for
James' son Douglas who was my father and brother of Harold. All
home foundations came from the New York subways.
Ronald Reagan watches electoral
college results
from Earle's home Reagan 489 vs. Carter 49 a mandate!
In 1953 Douglas, the son following in his
father's footsteps when he sold Earle Jorgensen a home and had
one of the largest commissions in Beverly Hills history. Jorgensen's
home 5 1/2 acres was about a block
from Howard Hughes. Douglas had both sides of the commission
and most lightly obtained Jorgensen as a client for he had sailed
around the world in 1935 while Jorgensen's father was a sea captain.
Jorgensen would go on to become Ronald
Reagan's chief kitchen cabinet member. When Reagan defeated Jimmy
Carter he had the largest electoral college victory in presidential
history and watched it on tv in this very home. On our mother's
side of the family we were distant cousins to the Carter family
on two lines. Jimmy Carter has gone on to make his own presidential
history living to make the trip around the sun 100 times.
Jorgensen made 101 trips around the sun.
Jack Hupp who married Marie Windsor made a copy of contract for
me. Click to view back side of contract
Adamson & Hupp.
Click: here
for Carter Family Genealogy.
Click: here for Earle M. Jorgensen's biography who made 101 trips around
sun.
The Adamson Brother's company produced
Lastex while George Eastman developed the hobby of collecting
photographs. Both were written up in Dale Carnegie's book How
to Win Friends and Influence People. It was James' son Harold
who received his first two Oscar nominations during the 1930s
while Eastman/Kodak received nine Oscars for the improvement
of motion picture film.
See James Adamson's estate as it looks today.
18 year old
Bewitched star Elizabeth Montgomery and Mr. Lucifer 1951 Part
1 through 6 with Joyce Bulifant. Ten Minute segiments. Harold
wrote Fred Astaire's first major film song. Harold told me as
a kid that Fred Astaire impressed him the most in Hollywood.
Probably because Harold had polio and Astaire was a great dancer.
In segiment four Elizabeth Montgomery was a real babe in her
bathing suit and black horn rim glasses. Fast forward to part
four ti catch her. what a delight.
MORE TURNER CLASSIC FILMS-
HAL SONGS
Harold Adamson's songs in films
will appear on Turner Classic Movie Channel
Click Here
for Turner Entertainment schedule for all movies.
Harold Adamson would probably have preferred acting in motion pictures to writing
songs for them. Although he experimented with verse writing while
in prep school, his ambition was to become a thespian. While
a student at the University of Kansas, he gained experience on
the boards by performing in summer stock. On transferring to
Harvard University, he landed roles in the Hasty Pudding Club
Shows. Harold may have been inspired a little by his uncle Ernest
Martin chief camera engineer at Vitaphone and Vitagraph. Mr.
Martin was the electrical engineer for many Rudolph Valentino
movies. In 1926 Martin set up the electrical work for the very
first sound movie Don Juan staring John Barrymore.Click Here for Rudolph Valentino photo.
Ten years later, Harold would write songs for two movies staring Lionel
and John Barrymore. Like many artists who trained for other careers,
Adamson's plans were changed by the unexpected success of a song.
Adamson clan. Circa 1910,
Minnie and Jim Adamson up front; Minnie sister in backrow; Ernest
Martin is on the right with hand in pocket, his wife Flo Adamson
is holding dog; James Adamson, Sr. is in back and wife on other
side of sister Campbell; Percy inventor of "Lastex"
is backrow with young boy Harold?; in front of Percy is Tom Adamson;
Seth Adamson has hand on man's shoulder who may be Minnie's brother
Herbert Campbell. These were the men behind the first stretchable
clothing "Lastex." Jim was written up in How To Win
Friends and Influence People and the developer of Larchmont Shores.
In Adamson's case, the composition was "Time On My Hands" for
which he wrote the lyrics in conjunction with Mack Gordon. Adamson
was barely out of college when the song was introduced in Florenz
Ziegfeld's Broadway production Smiles in 1930. That same year,
his work was heard in Earl Carroll's Vanities. After three more
stage musicals, the 27-year-old lyricist was lured to the cinema
capital by an offer from Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer. Bruce Adamson
has written and produced an 58 minute documentary on Hal's career.
Narratored by Wes Sims of Channel 46 Monterey Bay.
Adamson's nephew is selling 23 three-foot
high MGM Grand Hotel Photographs. Click on link to see Three
Foot High Bruce Adamson's Photographs..
Photograph of Jimmy McHugh,
Frank Sinatra and Harold signed by Sinatra "Bruce, All the
Best. Frank Sinatra 1989." Taken at the time Sinatra won
his First Academy Award nomination by McHugh and Hal's song I Couldn't Sleep A Wink Last Night. The Manchurian Candidate and Suddenly
are two great films
which are related to the JFK Assassination! Click
Here for Sinatra Letter 1988.
World Champ MAX
BAER SR-HAROLD ADAMSON JIMMY McHugh
FIGHTING FACISM
IN THE 1930/40s-- Taken at the time Baer made film The Prizefighter & the Lady which will be on Turner Classic Movies
on April 6th, 7:30 AM. Pacific Time Film in my opinion This film
out does Cindrella
Man, ten fold a complete
knock out!
One of the most
popular stars under contract to MGM was Joan Crawford.
Harold Adamson's first assignment for the studio was Crawford's
Dancing Lady (1933) co-starring Clark Gable. The film's score
included numbers by other lyricists, but it was Adamson's "Everything
I have Is Yours" that audiences remembered. The next year,
he worked on Fox's Bottoms Up starring Spencer Tracy; on RKO's
Strictly Dynamite, in which Lupe Velez and Jimmy Durante appeared;
and, working on loan to United Artists, on the Eddie Cantor vehicle
Kid Millions.
The first of Adamson's songs to place on the
new radio program called "Your Hit Parade" was "Everything's
Been Done Before" sung by Jean Harlow in the 1935 movie
Reckless. Harlow also introduced "Did I Remember" which
was nominated for the Academy Award in 1936. In this movie one
will catch a very rare glimpse of Cary Grant singing Harold's
song. After a dozen films at MGM, Adamson signed with Universal,
where he supplied Alice Faye and Deanna Durbin with two more
"Hit Parade"
favorites-- "You're a Sweetheart" and "My Own",
which brought the lyricist his second bid for the Oscar in 1938.
In 1948 Hal wrote the lyrics for the song
"Rock, Rock, Rock" a Michael Todd production for Broadway.
In the 1930s he wrote the lyrics for the song: Hilo Hattie. To
the right we see Elvis Presley in the film Blue Hawaii with Hilo
Hattie. This was a decade after Hal wrote Hilo Hattie for Hattie
and ten years after Rock, Rock Rock. In Hattie's autobiography
she said that this song made her career.
During
the years of World War II, Adamson's film songs "I
Couldn't Sleep a Wink Last Night," "A Lovely Way To
Spend an Evening," "Daybreak," "How Blue
the Night," and "I Don't Care Who Knows It" all
made the weekly surveys of America's ten top tunes. Harold wrote
the lyrics to Hilo Hattie in the early 1940s. Hal competed in
the annual Oscar derbys for the third and the fourth times when
"Change of Heart" (from Hit Parade of 1943) and "I
Couldn't Sleep a Wink Last Night" (From Higher and Higher)
were in the running. This song was Frank Sinatra's first Academy
Award nominating song.
In WWII Hal was given awards from the Department of War, for writing patriotic
songs for movies and hits such as "Coming in on a Wing and
a Prayer" and Bing Crosby's "Buy a Bond". Hal
wrote the song "There's A New Flag on Ima Jima."
Adamson's success continued after the war and he provided lyrics for Susan Hayward
in Smash-Up (1947), Jane Powell, Carmen Miranda and Elizabeth
Taylor in A Date with Judy (1948), Hal wrote songs for four films
that Carmen Miranda appeared in.
Would you like
to hear Marilyn Monroe sing on line? Well because as Hal would
sing "When Love Goes Wrong, Nothing Goes Right" we
can't! However we do have Melanie Miller, who looks, sings and
acts like Marilyn Monroe! If you would like to hire Melanie click
on link. M & M's are great! For the next best thing click
here
! Would you
like to purchase 8 x 10 photo or larger of Marilyn and Cary Grant
on rollerskates? email Adamson at bca@ciajfk.com For more info on photo click here.
Jane Russell in His Kind of Woman
(1951), Jane Russell and Marilyn
Monroe in Gentlemen
Prefer Blondes (1953). ** In 1956, he added words to Victor Young's main theme
from Around the World in 80 Days, and it became the eighth of
his inventions to top "Your Hit Parade." Victor Young
had received 22 Oscar nominations before winning an Oscar for
Around the World in 80 Days, six months after Young had died.
Harold could not be nominated because he wrote the lyrics two
weeks before Oscar night.
Doris Day sung the Oscar nominating song
"Que Sera Sera"Whatever Will Be Will Be, also a great
song. Four years later ironically Doris Day sung the same song
to David Niven in the film Please Don't Eat the Daisies.
Niven is best remembered for the film Around the World in 80
Days. The Radio and T.V. Association of America nominated Harold's
song: Around the World in 80 Days "Hit Record of the Year,"
a great honor in itself.
In 1957 Adamson received his fifth Oscar
nomination for writing the lyrics with Leo McCarey to An Affair
To Remember. Adamson however, his most prolific
piece of work is the lyrics for the theme song to "I Love
Lucy".
WE ALL LOVED LUCY:
"I Love Lucy and she loves
me, We're as happy as two can
be, Sometimes we quarrel but then, How we love making up again.
Lucy kisses like no one can, She's my missus and I'm her man,
and life is heaven you see, Cause I LOVE LUCY, Yes, I LOVE LUCY
and LUCY loves me..." Harold Adamson
Harold Adamson was born in Greenville,
New Jersey, in 1906 and was 73
at the time of his death in 1980..
An Affair to Remember, Bruce playing with
sister in Harold's backyard at 704 North Alpine, Beverly Hills
in 1959, Hal looking on. Not far away a few blocks Frank Sinatra
had a home. Next door was Donna Reed, both Reed and Sinatra won
Oscars in 1953 about seven years earlier. For From Here to Eternity.
Rings a bell with Hal. In the summer of 1981-82 my aunt Gretchen
went on vacation and allowed me to house sit for three months. Everyday was a hot summer
day and I would jog all around the bordering parks in Beverly
Hills. One of the days Sean Penn and Timothy Hutton came over
for a swim. 21 years after the photo to the left was taken.
Hal's last words were to
me "Bruce go out to the den and see how Douglas is doing."
At Santa Monica hospital. Sixteen years earlier Hal's father
James died in the same hospital, I was there.
Behind Every Great Man There is
a Great Woman, Behind Harold
Adamson was Gretchen. Please visit the memorial to my Aunt Gretchen
Adamson, (Mrs. Harold Adamson), who died at 7:55pm August 2,
2002 here.
Bruce Campbell Adamson produced
both a 28 and 58 minute documentary
"Our Pal Hal; An Affair To Remember"
News · Links
and Resources · ©2004 Bruce Campbell Adamson