Learn Hebrew the Easy Way Through Pictures
Learn to Read Hebrew: The Alephbet
Welcome to CartoonHebrew.com, where we use obnoxiously primitive cartoons to teach you Hebrew in a
fun, easy, and quick way!
Let's get started learning to read Hebrew!
Who is this site for?
Anyone who wants to read Hebrew!
You'll learn very quickly, using silly pictures to remember
the letters!  You might pick up a few actual words of Hebrew, but the main thing is reading.
What's Hebrew?
Hebrew is the traditional language of the Jewish people, and the official language of Israel.
It's the language of almost all of the original bible or Tanakh, including the Torah, and also the
language of Jewish daily prayer, which is why it's called the lashon hakodesh, or holy language.
There are other Jewish languages, including Yiddish, Aramaic, Ladino and others, but Hebrew's the
really big deal with the most ancient history
— and modern, too!
Is Hebrew Hard to Read?
Not really! It's just different. The good news is that Hebrew spelling is a lot more consistent
than English. It's tricky because it's written in the opposite direction to English (right to left)
and uses a totally different alphabet, called the Alephbet.
But that's where this site comes in:
Try learning your first Hebrew letter!
Or if you want, learn more about the Hebrew Alephbet!
Jewish Holiday Greetings
How do you say Happy Chanukah in Hebrew?
How do you spell Chanukah? (Or is it Hannuka?)
Purim: The #1 Jewish Party Of the Year!
Tu Bishvat: the New Year for trees!
Rosh Hashanah: Wishing a Happy Jewish New Year
Can you wish someone a happy Yom Kippur?
Passover Greetings and Word Practice!
Latest updates
Tu Bishvat page, for the New Year of trees!
Now Zayin's picture looks MUCH more animal-like.
And... the Cholam Malei page has been tweaked with a nicer flying fruit.
Seriously, the new picture for Vav is WAY better.
Improved the images for vowels segol and tsere.
NEW memory picture for Hey!
NEW memory picture for Dalet!
Updated info on "O" vowel pages: cholam malei and cholam chaser
Complete rewrite of the history page for Hebrew writing (the Alephbet).
Expanded the Alephbet 101 / FAQ page.
NEW memory picture for Gimel!
Completely NEW memory picture for Aleph!
The memory picture for the letter Bet is MUCH better now.
Totally revamped "ah" picture (the vowel patach)!
You might also like:
Hebrew Book List for Learners
What's the Alefbet or Alephbet?
Learn about the history of the Alephbet!
How is
Modern Israeli Hebrew different from ancient Biblical
Hebrew?
How do you spell Hannukka? Or is it Chanukah?
About Cartoon Hebrew
Tell me when the site is updated!
Email Address
Aleph: The First Hebrew Letter
CartoonHebrew.com -
Click on a letter to skip to a lesson:
Tell me when the site is updated!
Email Address
Flattr Us!
Find Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
Privacy