Seriously? OMG! WTF? » Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy
Seriously? OMG! WTF?  #  #
Home
About
Contact
Categories
Archives
Privacy Policy
Larry the Cable Guy @ The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy!
March 15th, 2009 under Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy.  [ Comments: 1 ]
Before Larry the Cable Git-R-Done at his roast that airs tonight on Comedy Central at 10p, he told me what he feared most! I have to admit I didn’t know that much Larry the Cable Guy before the Roast, but now I know more about him than I wanted to know…like what his pre-washed underwear looks like! Seriously he handled the roast brilliantly and when it was his turn to Git-R-Done, he got it done!!!
The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy is one of the funniest ones of them all, so make sure to check it out tonight at 10p for some of the biggest laughs you have had in a long time and jokes you will be telling for the days to come!!!
Maureen McCormick @ The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy!
March 15th, 2009 under Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy.  [ Comments: 2 ]
Maureen McCormick was one of the roasters at The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy that airs tonight at 10p and she was the funniest one of them all! She might look all sweet and innocent, but once she took the stage she was not the Marcia Brady that you guys fell in love with and us girls wanted to be!!! Seriously she should become a stand up comedian!!!
So make sure to check her out tonight on Comedy Central ar 10p and see a Maureen McCormick you never knew, but want to get to know! And pick up her autobiography, Here’s The Story for a book you just can’t put down!!!
Gary Busey @ The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy!
March 13th, 2009 under Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy.  [ Comments: 1 ]
Gary Busey was one of the roasters at The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy and just before he went inside; he gave me this in depth interview!!!
Dang you Dr Drew for diagnosing him and giving him the medicine he so desperately needed. I tried my hardest to get a Garyism, but maybe that whole interview was one!!! I don’t know about you, but I get a kick out of watching it!!!
One thing I know you guys will definitely get a kick out of is him roasting himself on The Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy on Sunday night at 10p!!! He was great roaster and he was even better when they roasted him!!! So seriously make sure to check it on Comedy Central on March 15th!!!
Warren Sapp @ The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy!
March 9th, 2009 under Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy.  [ Comments: none ]
Warren Sapp was one of the Roasters at The Comedy Central Roast for Larry the Cable Guy, and he is as funny as the way he plays football and as charming as he dances! You will be surprised what an amazing job he does with her version of You Might Be… jokes when the show airs this Sunday on Comedy Central at 10p!
But before he even started roasting the roasters and Larry the Cable Guy, he talked to me about Dancing with the Stars! When I interviewed the two injured were Jewel and Gilles Marini. As we know that changed Jewel and Nancy O’Dell were forced to leave the show due injuries. So maybe the remaining 13 will follow his advice how not to get injured since he was one of the very very very few who didn’t last season!
Seriously how charming and adorable is Warren Sapp? And don’t forget on Sunday you will see how funny he is too!!!
Larry the Cable Guy was roasted by Comedy Central!
March 2nd, 2009 under Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy.  [ Comments: none ]
Last night in Burbank on the Warner Bros lot, the latest celeb to be ripped a new on Comedy Central in a roast was Larry the Cable Guy and I was there to watch it. It was a fun night that included roasters like Maureen "Marsha Brady" McCormick, Warren Sapp, Gary Busey (wait 'til you see my in-depth interview with him), Reno Collier (Larry the Cable Guy's opening act), Jeff Ross, Jeff Foxworthy and Roast Master Lisa Lampanelli! Guests included Fired Up's Nicholas D'Agosto who is from the same hood as Larry, India De Beaufort and Marques Ray who are starring in Comedy Central's new show Krod Mandoon and the Flaming Sword of Fire that premieres in April, Kyle Cease and Doug Benson to name a few!
The Comedy Central Roast of Larry the Cable Guy is one of the funniest of them all!!! Lisa was a great Roast Master and I think she was roasted the most out of all them! Maureen McCormick was the female icon of the bunch and I think she missed out her on calling; she should so be a comedian! Her timing on the jokes were perfect! Gary Busey was Gary Busey and even roasted himself! Warren Sapp was too adorable because everytime he roasted someone, he would flash that sweet grin of his! Jeff Foxworthy was clean and funny and didn't do that many, if any, You Might Be A Red Neck jokes. Toby Keith had a lot of great one-lines. Reno Collier proved he has the potential to be more than an opening act. And if his career follows Larry the Cable Guy's than he will do better than Larry who did better than the person he opened for…Jeff Foxworthy!!!
The Comedy Central Roast with Larry the Cable will debut on March 15th at 10p and it is def not one to miss!!! And up until the premiere of the laugh-a-minute roast, I will be posting some of the interviews I did on the Black Carpet!!!
« Previous entries
SEARCH
Contact
E-Mail: Seriously? OMG! WTF?
Advertising
Blogs I Read
Celebitchy
Crafting with Ayn
Dlisted
Drunken Stepfather
Grunge
Pajiba
Paul Karslake
Screen Rant
WeSmirch
Recent Posts
Who is and isn’t returning to Malcolm in the Middle?
Ed O’Neill makes his TikTok debut
Final Destination: Bloodlines is a story that is generations old
What is, are you sleuth enough to figure out these TV detectives?
Jimmy Kimmel asked Pedro Pascal if Mister Fantastic’s penis stretches too?
Hot Links!
Did Pete Davidson reveal his secret to his dating success?
BTWF: Sarah Paulson on Law & Order
Is this the ‘unnamed celebrity’ that has a beef with Sherri Shepherd?
Rihanna got a sexy new wax figure at Madame Tussauds
Mambopress is Mambo/Wordpress Theme made by Ekta Paneri Provided by Domain
Registration of Webhosting
Services