Nixon's Failed Attempts At 'Poisoning The Press' : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Nixon's Failed Attempts At 'Poisoning The Press' Writer Mark Feldstein says muckraking columnist Jack Anderson cut ethical corners to get Nixon exposes, and the president responded with fury. He recounts surprising details of the long-running battle between the journalist and the politician in Poisoning the Press.
NPR
Author Interviews
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
Author Interviews
Nixon's Failed Attempts At 'Poisoning The Press'
September 30, 201011:00 AM ET
Heard on             Fresh Air
Nixon's Failed Attempts At 'Poisoning The Press'
Listen
·
39:55
39:55
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/130192940/130217593" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Enlarge this image
Richard M. Nixon, then  seeking the Republican presidential nomination, addresses an audience  in Oregon in May 1968.
AP
hide caption
toggle caption
AP
Richard M. Nixon, then  seeking the Republican presidential nomination, addresses an audience  in Oregon in May 1968.
AP
Richard Nixon is remembered as a ruthless politician driven at times by fear and hatred of his perceived enemies. But a new book suggests that Nixon's paranoia was based at least in part on his own experience. In Poisoning the Press: Richard Nixon, Jack Anderson and the Rise of Washington's Scandal Culture, Mark Feldstein describes the epic battle between Nixon and the muckraking syndicated columnist Jack Anderson. Feldstein follows the rise of Anderson's investigative journalism career and explains how his decades-long face-off with Nixon would become emblematic of the relationship between the press and other politicians. Feldstein tells Fresh Air's Dave Davies that the fight between the two men started shortly after Anderson first got his big break in 1947, when he moved to Washington, D.C., to become a researcher for the syndicated investigative journalist Drew Pearson.
Sponsor Message
Poisoning the Press: Richard Nixon, Jack Anderson, and the Rise of Washington's Scandal CultureBy Mark FeldsteinHardcover, 480 pagesFarrar, Straus and GirouxList Price: $30 Read an Excerpt
"[Pearson] dominated Washington from the Great Depression until his death in 1969," Feldstein explains. "And [he] was this combative Quaker who used his column to smite his foes. He fought on the side of progressivism [and] pacifism and was an unusual left-wing voice in the nation's capital." One of Pearson's foes was Richard Nixon, who had been elected to Congress in 1946 and became a Senator in 1950. In 1952, after Nixon was tapped to become Dwight Eisenhower's running mate, Anderson and Pearson wrote a column about the money Nixon may have taken from corporate interests. That led to Nixon delivering his famous "Checkers speech," in which he decried his opponents and stated that no matter what anyone said, he would not return his daughters' dog, Checkers, which had been given to them as a gift. "That resonated emotionally with the public, and a huge base -- particularly of hard-core Republican conservatives -- swelled to his defense and pressured Eisenhower to keep Nixon on the ticket," Feldstein explains. "Meanwhile, liberal Democrats were nauseated by it and thought it was a maudlin speech. And the polarization that Nixon's career would have ever after was indelibly marked." After Nixon effectively dodged the bullet by giving the Checkers speech, Anderson and Pearson stayed on his case, but were plagued by scandals of their own. The two men published a story about Nixon receiving payoffs from Union Oil that later turned out to be false. And in 1958, when Anderson was caught bugging the office of a man bribing Eisenhower's White House chief of staff, it was Nixon who helped stoke the flames to turn the public against Anderson.
Enlarge this image
Mark Feldstein was an on-air correspondent and investigative reporter for CNN, ABC News and NBC News for more than 20 years.
morgan-ashcom
hide caption
toggle caption
morgan-ashcom
Mark Feldstein was an on-air correspondent and investigative reporter for CNN, ABC News and NBC News for more than 20 years.
morgan-ashcom
"He plant[ed] letters and editorials criticizing Anderson," Feldstein says. "So from that beginning, you have Nixon now retaliating against Anderson, and you have this sense that these dirty tricks are the way Washington works." In the two decades that followed, the conflict became so ferocious, Feldstein says, that Nixon ordered CIA surveillance of Anderson and his family -- and White House operatives seriously considered assassinating the journalist. "They actually conducted surveillance. They followed him from his work to his house," Feldstein says. "They staked out his house. They looked at it for vulnerabilities ... [and dicussed] how they could plant poison in his aspirin bottle. They talked about how they could spike his drink and they talked about smearing LSD on his steering wheel so that he would absorb it through his skin and die in a hallucination-crazed auto crash."
Sponsor Message
The plot was ultimately called off, Feldstein says, because Gordon Liddy and Howard Hunt, the two men who were supposed to assassinate Anderson, were instead tapped to break into Watergate.
Related NPR Stories
Read a Review
'Poisoning The Press' Recounts Nixon-Anderson Feud
The Two-Way
Schorr Flashback: Nixon On Pursuing Journalists On Taxes
Remembrances
Journalist, Nixon Speechwriter William Safire
Commentary
Scars Remain 35 Years After Nixon's Misdeeds
Interviews
'Life Lessons' From a White House Plumber
"That led to their arrest and the downfall of the regime," Feldstein says. "[But] there are no smoking-gun tapes showing Nixon ordering the assassination of Anderson. What Hunt and Liddy both said was that the order came from [White House special counsel] Charles Colson. But what Hunt told me before his death was that he believed that Colson was acting at the behest of the president himself. ... I find it very difficult to believe that Colson and the other aides were acting without the implicit support of President Nixon. It defies logic to imagine that they would cook this up, the assassination of a journalist as prominent as Jack Anderson, unless they had the signal from above to do it." President Nixon died in 1994. Jack Anderson died in 2005. Feldstein, who interned for Anderson in the 1970s, spent nearly 20 years as a television correspondent and investigative reporter for CNN, ABC and NBC, twice winning the Peabody Award for public service. He is now an associate professor of media and public affairs at George Washington  University.
Poisoning the Press
Richard Nixon, Jack Anderson, and the Rise of Washington's Scandal Culture
By Mark Feldstein
Purchase BookPurchase
close overlay Buy Featured Book
TitlePoisoning the PressByMark Feldstein
Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How?
Amazon
Independent Bookstores
Excerpt: 'Poisoning the Press'
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor