Centers & Institutes › Antioch University
Skip to content
Give NowRequest InfoVisitApplyEmployment
About
AboutAbout Antioch University
Core Attributes of an Antioch Education
Why Antioch University?
Coalition for the Common Good
Equity, Belonging, and Culture
History
Common Thread
Antioch Works for Democracy
LeadershipOffice of the Chancellor
Executive Leadership
Academic Leadership
Board of Governors
President Search
Administrative ResourcesAccreditation
University Policies
Discover Our CampusesLos Angeles
New England
Online
Santa Barbara
Seattle
Academics
Discover Your Own Path Explore degrees that align with your passions and goals. Find your fit today and take the first step toward a meaningful future.
Find Your Program
Academic Focus AreasCreative Writing & Communication
Counseling & Therapy
Education
Environmental Studies & Sustainability
Individualized Studies
Leadership & Management
Nursing & Health Professions
Psychology
Undergraduate Studies
Learn Your WayLow-Residency
On-Campus
Online
Programs by TypeDoctoral
Master's
Bachelor's
Certificates
Credentials & Endorsements
Continuing Education
Admission & Aid
AdmissionsAdmissions Overview
Unofficial Transcript Evaluation
Upcoming Admissions Events
What to Expect
Information forDREAMERS
International Students
Transfer & Degree Completion Students
Veterans & Military-Connected Students
Dates & DeadlinesGraduate School of Leadership & Change
Los Angeles
New England
Online
Santa Barbara
Seattle
Tuition & FeesGSLC Tuition & Fees
AULA Tuition & Fees
AUNE Tuition & Fees
AUO Tuition & Fees
AUSB Tuition & Fees
AUS Tuition & Fees
Financial AidFinancial Aid Overview
Financial Aid Forms
Scholarships & Grants
Types of Aid
Work-Study Opportunities
Schools
Discover Your Own Path Explore degrees that align with your passions and goals. Find your fit today and take the first step toward a meaningful future.
Find Your Program
Explore Our SchoolsSchool of Counseling, Psychology, & Therapy
School of Undergraduate Studies
School of Education
Graduate School of Leadership & Change
School for the Environment & Sustainability
Graduate School of Nursing & Health Professions
LibraryResources
Departments & Offices
Advancement
Disability Support Services
Grants and Foundation Relations
Information Technology
Institutional Effectiveness
Registrar
Strategic Partnerships
Student Accounts
Writing Centers
Academic Resources
Academic Assessment
Academic Calendar
Academic Catalog
Bookstore
Consumer Information
Licensure Information
Resource List
Student Policies
University Policies
Additional Resources
Alumni Magazine
Chancellor's Communications
Common Thread (University News)
Event Calendar
Faculty Directory
Home
›
Archives for Centers & Institutes
Centers & Institutes
Antioch Center for School Renewal
As the service division of the Department of Education at Antioch University New England, our school coaches, drawn from highly-skilled, experienced K-12 teacher-leaders, consultants, and core university faculty, are part of an educational institution that dates back to Horace Mann and embodies the values of progressive, student-centered education.
Antioch Community Therapy Services (ACTS)
Antioch Psychological Services Center
The Psychological Services Center (PSC) is a counseling center serving the Monadnock community and Antioch students. We provide individual, couples, and family counseling to people of all ages, as well as psychological testing and assessment.
Antioch Spatial Analysis Lab (ASAL)
AULA Counseling Center (AUCC)
AUNE Counseling Center
We offer two choices for counseling, The Couple and Family Therapy Institute and The Psychological Services Center.
AUNE Couple & Family Therapy Institute
AUNE's Wellness Institute
AUNE’s Wellness Institute strives to provide the training and resources necessary to make changes on an individual, agency, and policy level to support wellness for those in the helping professions. Since its inception, our faculty have provided training throughout the US, helping counselors to not only develop individual wellness strategies but also to create organizational changes based on evidence-based practices to support counselor wellness.
AUS Community Counseling and Psychology Clinic
Trained in a variety of clinical psychology and counseling techniques, our student therapists consult with you to identify the best approach for your situation. In partnership with seasoned, licensed psychologists and counselors, the Clinic provides supervised learning opportunities for graduate students, with special attention to understanding multicultural differences.
Center for Climate Preparedness & Community Resilience
Center for Place-Based Education
The Center for Place-Based Education promotes learning locally in the natural, built, historic, and cultural environment. Projects and programs encourage partnerships between students, teachers, and community members that strengthen student achievement, community vitality, and a healthy environment.
Collaborative Service Initiative
The CSI is a faculty-supervised capstone opportunity for graduate students to work together on projects for organizations. Student participants provide pro bono consultation services on behalf of clients. Projects can include for example applied ecological or social research, energy and materials management, program evaluation, or other consultative services within the environmental domain.
Community Garden Connections
Conservation Psychology Institute
The Conservation Psychology Institute is an interactive workshop. Participants are encouraged to bring their particular organizational challenges to the Institute to provide real-world problems, and specific regional case studies will be included for demonstrations and application exercises.
Glover's Ledge
Horatio Colony Nature Preserve
The Horatio Colony Nature Preserve (HCNP) is a 645-acre parcel of diverse upland forests and wetlands in Keene and Swanzey, New Hampshire, and features five miles of hiking trails, a historic cabin, foundations, numbered interpretive signposts, and a public program series.
Institute for International Conservation (IIC)
We conduct conservation research and service projects with partner organizations, unite students and professionals to grow the next generation of environmental leaders and engage AUNE and the New England community in understanding our global interdependence.
Institute of War Stress Injuries, Recovery, & Social Justice
Monadnock Ecological Research & Education Project (MERE)
The Monadnock Ecological Research and Education (MERE) Project was initiated in 2007 by Professor Peter Palmiotto and graduate students in the Environmental Studies Department at Antioch University New England. Through collaborative partnerships with Monadnock State Park, The Monadnock Advisory Commission, The Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, Town of Jaffrey, and The Waterman Fund the MERE Project ultimately seeks to promote informed use and foster appreciation of Mount Monadnock through ecological research, monitoring, and educational outreach.
Nature Based Leadership Institute
Nature-Based Professional Network
The Center for Academic Innovation (CAI)
The Center for Diversity and Social Justice (DSJ)
Whole Terrain
Search
CA DisclosuresPrivacy PolicyResourcesTerms & ConditionsContact
Antioch University is a proud co-founder of the Coalition for the Common Good
© Antioch University 2025. All rights reserved.