Alexander Nevsky (1938) - Sergei M. Eisenstein - film review
Alexander Nevsky (1938)
Directed by Sergei M. Eisenstein, Dmitri Vasilyev
Action / Drama / History / War
aka: Aleksandr Nevskiy
Film Review
The fear of an invasion from Nazi Germany in 1938 was the motivating
force behind this lavish historical epic by the great Russian film
director Sergei Eisenstein.  The story of the 13th century warrior
prince Alexander Nevsky became a rallying cry for Russians of all ages
to be prepared to take up arms in defence of their country.  The
film is strangely prescient, since its cataclysmic ending prefigures
the humiliating defeat of the Nazis at Stalingrad in 1942-3.
Alexander Nevsky marked a
significant change in Eisenstein's approach to filmmaking.  This
was partly the result of pressure put on him by his producers at
Mosfilm to make a film that was accessible to the masses, but also
because Eisenstein himself had evolved some of his ideas.  He now
saw character and narrative as having far greater importance than
artistic style in the composition of the film - a reversal of the auteur principle.  Nowhere is
this more apparent than in the way in which the film is
edited.   Eisenstein favours more conventional editing
techniques over the sophisticated montage methods he had developed in
earlier films.
Previously, Eisenstein had relied on a technique known as dialectic montage - the
juxtaposition of contrasting images - to evoke emotion through an
impression of conflict.  In Alexander
Nevsky, he favours another, more widely used approach, vertical montage, which seeks to
achieve an organic unity between the various elements of the film, such
as sound and image.  The best example of this is the meticulous
alignment of Prokofiev's masterful score with the images we see on the
screen.  The music works to underline the heroism of the gallant
Russian soldiers and to stress the savagery of the child-butchering
Teutons.  The sense of emotional cohesion is probably what makes
this Eistenstein's most lyrical film.  The feeling of emotional
conflict, so noticeable in his other films, is curiously muted here.
Another crucial departure from Eisenstein's earlier work is the use of
a heroic lead character - in this case the Prince Alexander Nevsky - in
place of the collective mass of the proletariat.  This reflects a
change in Communist thinking in the 1930s, that ordinary men and women
are not motivated by abstract notions of brotherhood, but by
outstanding individuals - flesh and blood icons, to replace the
religious icons of the past (party leader Josef Stalin being the
obvious example).  Nevsky
is the epitome of the proletariat hero - as was the charismatic actor
who played him, Nikolai Cherkassov (who subsequently took the leading
role in Eisenstein's 1944 film Ivan the Terrible).
Although Alexander Nevsky appears stylistically bland compared with
Eistenstein's other films - it lacks the harsh realism of Battleship Potemkin (1925) and
the sinister expressionism of Ivan
the Terrible - Alexander
Nevsky triumphs in other areas.  The main battle sequence
(staged with thousands of serving Russian soldiers) is one of the most
impressive ever filmed; it is exceptional both in its scale and in its
seemingly relentless energy.
The success of Alexander Nevsky effectively
revived Eisenstein's faltering career, after six years of
inactivity.  It was well-received by critics at home and abroad
and was awarded the Order of Lenin in 1939.  The film had to be
withdrawn when peace negotiations were taking place between the Soviet
Union and Nazi Germany in 1939, but was hastily re-released when
hostilities began two years later.  Contrary to what might have
been expected, this is not a contrived piece of state-sponsored
propaganda but a deeply felt expression of patriotism, a film whose
appeal extends way beyond the place and time where it was conceived.
© James Travers 2008
The above content is owned by frenchfilms.org and must not be copied.
Film Synopsis
In 1242, Russia finds herself being invaded on two fronts.
On the East, the country is attacked by Mongol raiders, and on the West by Teutonic knights.
Some Russian leaders attempt to forge an alliance with the foreign
invaders, but they come to be regarded as traitors.  Those who
resist are brutally slain.  When the city of Pskov falls under
a violent onsalught, the Prince Alexander Nevsky sets about creating an army of brave
warriors to save his country from the Teutons...
© James Travers
The above content is owned by frenchfilms.org and must not be copied.
Similar Films
Here are some other films you may enjoy watching:
Tora! Tora! Tora! (1970)
The Dam Busters (1955)
Michel Strogoff (1926)
Waterloo (1970)
Das Boot (1981)
Other related links:
The best Russian war films
Film Credits
Director: Sergei M. Eisenstein,
Dmitri Vasilyev
Script: Sergei M. Eisenstein,
Pyotr Pavlenko
Cinematographer: Eduard Tisse
Music: Sergei Prokofiev
Cast: Nikolai Cherkasov (Aleksandr Nevsky),
Nikolai Okhlopkov (Vasili Buslai),
Andrei Abrikosov (Gavrilo Oleksich),
Dmitriy Orlov (Ignat),
Vasili Novikov (Pavsha),
Nikolai Arsky (Domash Tverdislavich),
Varvara Massalitinova (Amelfa Timoferevna),
Vera Ivashova (Olga Danilovna),
Aleksandra Danilova (Vasilisa),
Vladimir Yershov (Von Balk),
Sergei Blinnikov (Tverdilo),
Ivan Lagutin (Anani - a Monk),
Lev Fenin (The Archbishop),
Naum Rogozhin (The Black-Hooded Monk),
Nikolai Aparin (Mikhalka),
A. Gulkovski (Teutonic Knight),
Leonid Iudov (Savka),
Ivan Klyukvin (Pskov Warrior),
Lyan-Kun (Hubilay),
Pavel Pashkov (Mikula)
Country: Soviet Union
Language: Russian
Support: Black and White
Runtime: 112 min
Aka: Aleksandr Nevskiy
The best of Indian cinema
Forget Bollywood, the best of India's cinema is to be found elsewhere, most notably in the extraordinary work of Satyajit Ray.
Read more...
The best of American cinema
Since the 1920s, Hollywood has dominated the film industry, but that doesn't mean American cinema is all bad - America has produced so many great films that you could never watch them all in one lifetime.
Read more...
The best of American film noir
In the 1940s, the shadowy, skewed visual style of 1920s German expressionism was taken up by directors of American thrillers and psychological dramas, creating that distinctive film noir look.
Read more...
The very best of French film comedy
Thanks to comedy giants such as Louis de Funès, Fernandel, Bourvil and Pierre Richard, French cinema abounds with comedy classics of the first rank.
Read more...
The best French films of 2018
Our round-up of the best French films released in 2018.
Read more...
Other things to look at
Review of Les Souvenirs
Biography of Sylvie Testud
Review of Lac aux dames
Biography of Carole Bouquet
Review of Blue Murder at St. Trinian's
Home
Contact us
About us
Privacy
Terms of use
Copyright
Copyright © frenchfilms.org 1998-2024All rights reserved
All content on this page is protected by copyright
HOME
INDEX
BEST OF
ACTORS
QUIZ
SEARCH