The Ella Baker Center honors three visionaries - Oakland North
Skip to content
Site Menu
Politics
Economy
Crime
Education
Health
Environment
Culture
Sports
Community
About Us
The Ella Baker Center honors three visionaries
Paige A. Ricks on November 13, 2009
The Ella Baker Center for Human Rights honored three Bay Area visionaries at its end-of-the-year fundraiser Thursday night in downtown Oakland.
“Beautiful people, beautiful people, beautiful people,” said Abel Habtegeorgis, the media relations manager for the center and emcee for the night. “Like a good friend of mine from Brooklyn once said, ‘You could have been anywhere in the world tonight, but you’re here with me.’ And I appreciate it.”
Dim lighting and candles on each table set a reserved mood for the fundraiser — but the audience of around 400 people just wanted to party. Samba music played in the background. The Ella Baker staff danced on stage. People in the audience clapped their hands to the music.
The center gave awards to Lateefah Simon, the executive director of Lawyer’s Committee for Civil Rights, Lynne Twist, the president of the Soul of Money Institute, and Carl Anthony, the co-founder of Breakthrough Communities. Habtegeorgis said all three were being honored for their efforts to break down “the walls of hate and prejudice” through social and environmental justice.
The Ella Baker Center held the fundraiser to support its programs, including “Books not Bars,” a campaign to change the youth prison system, and the “Green-Collar Jobs Campaign,” which creates green-job opportunities for low-income communities and people of color. An Oakland-based nonprofit founded in 1996, the center was named for Ella Jo Baker, a human and civil rights activist who began her career in the 1940s, became involved in bus boycotts and the fight against Jim Crow laws, and continued to work until her death in 1986. The awards presented Thursday were a way for the center to recognize “the visionaries of our time.”
Zachary Morris, of the Ella Baker staff, said honoree Lateefah Simon is “about the business of freeing our people.” Simon is in charge at the Lawyer’s Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco, a national nonprofit organization that provides free legal service to people on civil rights matters, such as immigration or discrimination, with special attention to African-Americans.
At 19, Simon became the executive director of San Francisco’s Center for Young Women’s Development, making her one of the youngest leaders of social justice in the country. In 2007, she was named in “O” Magazine’s “Power List” as one of the top 20 most powerful women.
“It Takes Two To Make a Thing Go Right,” blared from the speakers as Simon ran up the stage steps to receive her award. “You must believe in young people because they have the courage where we fail,” said Simon, reciting a quote from Ella Jo Baker.
Lynne Twist was honored for being a best-selling author — her book is called The Soul of Money — and entrepreneur. Her company, Soul of Money Institute, has educational programs that help people organize their finances. “Move away from fear and toward love,” Twist said. “The Ella Baker Center gives birth to greatness on the streets.”
Carl Anthony, the other honoree, was pushing for environmental justice long before it was popular to do so. In 1962, he organized the Harlem Neighborhood Commons, one of New York’s first vest pocket parks, which is a small park that is accessible to the general public in urban downtown areas. In 2009, he co-founded Breakthrough Communities, an organization that promotes community involvement in city development.
Anthony, whose father worked with Ella Baker during the 1930s, is still involved in the Ella Baker Center as a staff mentor. “I want to celebrate the fact that you’re uplifting Oakland,” Anthony said.
The night continued with a performance from Hadeel Ramadan, a 19-year-old poet. Ramadan, who is originally from Chicago, is part of Youth Speaks, a high school poetry slam group, which was featured on HBO’s documentary “Brave New Voices.” She wrote a poem about the Oscar Grant shooting and compared it to other tragedies around the world. “We teach our children they are U.S. citizens before human beings,” she said. “My name is Hadeel Ramadan and I am starving for humanity.”
As the evening ended, Jakada Imani, the executive director of the Ella Baker Center, thanked the honorees and the audience for being a part of the Ella Baker Center’s celebration. “When you give colored folks a chance we can do something,” he said. “Look around the room, this is the diversity of Oakland.”
11/13/09 Friday the 13th
Study charges some streets are “dangerous by design”
Oakland North welcomes comments from our readers, but we ask users to keep all discussion civil and on-topic. Comments post automatically without review from our staff, but we reserve the right to delete material that is libelous, a personal attack, or spam. We request that commenters consistently use the same login name. Comments from the same user posted under multiple aliases may be deleted. Oakland North assumes no liability for comments posted to the site and no endorsement is implied; commenters are solely responsible for their own content.
Search for Stories:
Oakland North
Oakland North is an online news service produced by students at the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism and covering Oakland, California. Our goals are to improve local coverage, innovate with digital media, and listen to you–about the issues that concern you and the reporting you’d like to see in your community. Please send news tips to: oaklandnorthstaff@gmail.com.
Latest Posts
Oakland spares firehouses, but it will be months before closed stations reopen
Fiona Ulrich on March 5, 2025
VIDEO: Giving kids and communities hope — Youth Alive works to stop the cycle of violence in Oakland
Seven Wu on February 24, 2025
CO-LLAB CHOIR: An Oakland community brought together to sing healing music
Jack Hildebrand on February 4, 2025
Get In Touch!
oaklandnorthstaff@gmail.com
University of CaliforniaNorth Gate HallBerkeley, CA
About Us
Oakland North is an online news service produced by the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism for, and about, the people of Oakland, California.  Our goal is to produce professional and engaging journalism that is useful for the citizens of the city.
Search for Stories:
© 2025 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved.
Scroll To Top