Philip Greilich, M.D. - Faculty Profile - UT Southwestern
Skip to Main Content
Back to UT Southwestern Home
Faculty Directory
Back to Faculty Directory
UT Southwestern Sites
UT Southwestern Home
Home - EDU
Research
Education & Training
Patient Care
Faculty
Departments & Centers
Media Hub
Careers
About Us
For Employees
Search
Search All Faculty
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Philip Greilich, M.D.
Titles and Appointments
Professor
School
Medical School
Department
Anesthesiology & Pain Management
You have reached the Academic Profile.
For more information on the doctor and patient care, please visit the clinical profile.
Biography
Download Curriculum Vitae
Philip E. Greilich, MD, is a Professor of Anesthesiology & Pain Management and serves as a Quality Officer for the Executive Vice President for Health System Affairs. Dr. Greilich is a practicing cardiovascular anesthesiologist involved in quality, safety and health services research. He received his B.A from Texas A&M University, M.D. from Texas Tech University School of Medicine and underwent residency and sub-specialty training at the Medical College of Virginia/VCU. He received advance training in healthcare delivery from the Intermountain Institute of Healthcare Quality and Research and will complete an executive program (M.Sc) in Healthcare Leadership and Management at the Naveen Jindal School of Management (UT Dallas) in 2018.
Dr. Greilich’s research focuses on understanding the influence of patient, provider and organizational ergonomics on outcomes when implementing and diffusing best practices. His research has been funded by the National Institutes of Health, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the Departments of Defense and Veterans’ Affairs, among others. Nationally, he serves on the Patient Safety and Quality Leadership Steering Committee for the Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists and is the Founding Chair the Multi-Center Perioperative Handover Collaborative.
Education
Medical School
Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center (1987)
Internship
UT Medical Branch at Galveston (1988), Internal Medicine
Residency
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine (1992), Anesthesiology
Fellowship
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine (1992), Cardiothoracic Anesthesiology
Research Interest
Development of high reliability teams
Implementation and dissemination of evidence-based practices
Organizational ergonomics
Quality, safety and outcomes education
Publications
Featured Publications
Leveraging the Science of Teamwork to Sustain Handoff Improvements in Cardiovascular Surgery.
Keebler JR, Lynch I, Ngo F, Phelps E, Huang N, Guttman O, Preble R, Minhajuddin AT, Gamez N, Wanat-Hawthorne A, Landgraf K, Minnis E, Gisick L, McBroom M, Ambardekar A, Olson D, Greilich PE, Jt Comm J Qual Patient Saf 2023 Aug 49 8 373-383
Improving Perioperative Handoffs: Moving Beyond Standardized Checklists and Protocols.
Abraham J, Rosen M, Greilich PE, Jt Comm J Qual Patient Saf 2023 Aug 49 8 341-344
The debrief imperative: building teaming competencies and team effectiveness.
Tannenbaum SI, Greilich PE, BMJ Qual Saf 2023 Mar 32 3 125-128
Perioperative Blood Conservation: Guidelines to Practice.
Kwak J, Wilkey AL, Abdalla M, Joshi R, Roman PEF, Greilich PE, Adv Anesth 2019 Dec 37  1-34
An Implementation Science Approach to Handoff Redesign in a Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit.
Geoffrion TR, Lynch I, Hsu W, Phelps E, Minhajuddin A, Tsai E, Timmons A, Greilich PE, Ann. Thorac. Surg. 2019 Nov
Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists Clinical Practice Improvement Advisory for Management of Perioperative Bleeding and Hemostasis in Cardiac Surgery Patients.
Raphael J, Mazer CD, Subramani S, Schroeder A, Abdalla M, Ferreira R, Roman PE, Patel N, Welsby I, Greilich PE, Harvey R, Ranucci M, Heller LB, Boer C, Wilkey A, Hill SE, Nuttall GA, Palvadi RR, Patel PA, Wilkey B, Gaitan B, Hill SS, Kwak J, Klick J, Bollen BA, Shore-Lesserson L, Abernathy J, Schwann N, Lau WT, Anesth. Analg. 2019 Oct
Consensus Recommendations for the Conduct, Training, Implementation, and Research of Perioperative Handoffs.
Agarwala AV, Lane-Fall MB, Greilich PE, Burden AR, Ambardekar AP, Banerjee A, Barbeito A, Bryson TD, Greenberg S, Lorinc AN, Lynch IP, Pukenas E, Cooper JB, Anesth. Analg. 2019 May 128 5 e71-e78
Diffusing Innovation and Best Practice in Health Care.
Greilich PE, Phelps ME, Daniel W Anesthesiol Clin 2018 Mar 36 1 127-141
The effect of epsilon-aminocaproic acid and aprotinin on fibrinolysis and blood loss in patients undergoing primary, isolated coronary artery bypass surgery: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, noninferiority trial.
Greilich PE, Jessen ME, Satyanarayana N, Whitten CW, Nuttall GA, Beckham JM, Wall MH, Butterworth JF Anesth. Analg. 2009 Jul 109 1 15-24
Handoffs and the challenges to implementing teamwork training in the perioperative environment.
Paquette S, Kilcullen M, Hoffman O, Hernandez J, Mehta A, Salas E, Greilich PE, Front Psychol 2023 14  1187262
Results 1-10 of 23
1
2
3
Next
Last
Honors & Awards
Academy for Performance Excellence Platinum Level in Quality ImprovementInducted based on contributions to advancing quality, safety and outcomes education, scholarship and mentoring (2023)
UT System Kenneth I. Shine, MD Academy of Health Science EducationInducted based on contributions to advancing clinical and health system science education (2023)
Fellow, Clinical Safety & Effectiveness, University of Texas Heathcare SystemElected based on contributions to improving clinical safety and effectiveness at UT Southwestern Medical Center (2014)
Fellow, American Society of Echocardiography (FASE)Elected based on contributions to intraoperative echocardiography education and service (2007)
Fellow, American Heart Association (FAHA)Elected based on contributions to cardiovascular medicine (2002)
Association of University AnesthesiologistsElected based on contribution to academic medicine (2001)
Professional Associations/Affiliations
American Heart Association (1995)
American Medical Association (1995)
American Society of Anesthesiology (1989)
American Society of Echocardiography (1998)
Human Factors and Ergonomics Society (2016)
Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists (1992)
Quick Links
Administrative Offices
UTSW Leadership
Related Links
Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Management
Institution
Careers
Comments & Questions
Contact Us
Maps
Phone Directory
Sitemap
Legal
HEERF Reporting
Non-Discrimination Policy
Patient Rights
Open Records
Privacy Policy
Protected Expression
Site Policies
State
State of Texas
Texas Veterans Portal
TRAIL Search
UT System
Social
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Copyright 2024. The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
5323 Harry Hines Blvd., Dallas, Texas 75390Phone 214-648-3111