Randolph Jordan I Of Sound Mind
Home
Bio
Contact
Pedagogy
Talks
Research
Practice
Publications
Portfolio
Randolph Jordan, Ph.D.
Of Sound Mind
New Book!
Published by Oxford University Press in August 2023.
Amazon: Canada / USA / UK
Cover Image: Production still from Picture of Light courtesy of Peter Mettler.
Impostor Cities Exhibition at MoCA Toronto, June 2 – July 23, 2023.
My sound design with Florian Grond is featured in the Impostor Cities exhibition, running at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Toronto from June 2 to July 23.
MaMI Village Soundwalk, May 27th, 2023.
Presentation at the Toronto Film and Media Seminar, Jan 20th, 2023
I presented my paper “Teaching the Politics of Representation through Listening to Film Sound” on the Politics and Possibilities of Sound in Media panel at this year’s opening meeting of the TFMS. Thanks to organizers Katherine Spring and Taien Ng-Chan for the invitation.
New Text: Pole Positions: Exposure and Intersection on Indigenous Land Under Vancouver’s Burrard Bridge.
Published in Place Matters: Critical Topographies in Word and Image, edited by Jonathan Bardo and Blake Fitzpatrick. Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2022.
Bell Tower Screening at Film Pop Montreal, Sept. 23, 2021
Bell Tower of False Creek is screening with the new documentary A Symphony of Noise on sound artist Matthew Herbert at the Film Pop festival in Montreal, Sept. 23rd, 2021.
Paper Presentation at the Grateful Dead Scholars Caucus, Feb. 23-27, 2021.
Bell Tower of False Creek screening at Mimesis Documentary Festival, Aug. 12-18, 2020
My short film Bell Tower of False Creek is playing in the “Extraction” block at the inaugural Mimesis Documentary Festival, online from Aug. 12-18, 2020.
Sound curation for Impostor Cities at the 2020 Venice Architecture Biennale
I am collaborating with Florian Grond in designing the sound component of the Impostor Cities project, Canada’s official selection for the 2020 Venice Architecture Biennale, opening August 29th. The project represents Canadian architecture through the myriad films in which famous sites are disguised as other places. The exhibit will feature a layer of unique sound design, comprised of a 15 channel ambisonic presentation of Canadian site-specific sound recordings. This layer of audio will soundtrack the exhibition alongside their impostorized versions appearing on-screen. As visitors move through the Canada Pavilion, they will hear what it sounds like to stand in the spots where these films were shot while visually witnessing their transformation into other spaces.
New Text: Unsettling the Canadian Film History Classroom through Sound
Published in the Journal of Cinema and Media Studies Teaching Dossier, vol. 5, no. 2, edited by Paul McEwan and Allison Whitney.
Next Page →
About Me
I teach full time in the Humanities department at Champlain College in Montreal. My research, pedagogy, and creative practice reside at the intersections of soundscape research, media studies, and critical geography. I have previously taught in the cinema departments at Concordia University and Toronto Metropolitan University, and in the Humanities departments at Lasalle College and Dawson College. I have presented and published extensively on film sound, media geography, and acoustic ecology. My sound compositions, photographs and films have been exhibited internationally. See bio for more details.
Fall 2024
This semester I am teaching courses on media literacy and environmental art at Champlain College and a course on sound, art and consciousness at Concordia. My new book, Acoustic Profiles: A Sound Ecology of the Cinema, was released into the wild last year. I have a video essay on sound in the films of Gus Van Sant in the current issue of Alphaville, and my chapter on Stan Douglas' iOS app Circa 1948 has just surfaced in the The Interactive Documentary in Canada collection (McGill-Queen's University Press). I have begun work on my next short film, Displacements, an experimental documentary on the life of my father in Vancouver, BC. I recently completed the sound design for a new film collaboration with Gerda Cammaer, Sea Changes, now on the festival circuit. I have a short text on the silent film Little Lindy Sang forthcoming in the Oxford Companion to Teaching Silent Film. And I am prepping a grad seminar on BC Film for Concordia in the winter.
Links to My Stuff
Inevitable Plastic : Photography
Soppy Bag Radio : On the Dial
Soppy Bag Records : Creation Hub
The Schizophone : Sound Blog
Thesis (M.A.) : Sound in Lynch
Thesis (Ph.D.) : Audiovisual Ecology
Search
Search for:
Copyright © 2011 Randolph Jordan, Ph.D. •