Praxis Series | Romantic Circles
Skip to main content
Toggle menu
Home
Editions
Latest
Explore
Praxis
Latest
Explore
Gallery
Explore Latest Exhibits
Explore Past Exhibits
Explore All Images
Unbound
Reviews & Resources
Book Reviews
Index of Authors
Booklists
Timelines
Syllabus Repository
About
Masthead
History
Index of Contributors
Submissions, Use & Citation Guidelines
Archived Material
Praxis Series
A series of peer-reviewed critical volumes devoted to the field of Romanticism and its theoretical underpinnings
Section Editors:   Brian McGrath
,  Yasmin Solomonescu
Page Title
Latest Volumes
Romantic ContingenciesEdited by: Padma Rangarajan
October 2024
“Pandemic” was Merriam-Webster’s—and everyone else’s—2020 Word of the Year, but the silent partner of any crisis is “contingency.” The unconscionable death toll in the United States is at least partly the result of a failure to prepare for the non-surprise surprise of the pandemic. At the time this introduction was written, we were repeatedly…
Romanticism, Teaching, Wellbeing: A Pedagogy VolumeEdited by: Ben Pladek, Emily Stanback
October 2024
The years between 1750 and 1850 were pivotal for shaping contemporary ideas about wellbeing, health, illness, and disability. Romantic thinkers saw wellbeing as relative, embodied, and inextricable from social and political circumstances. This volume shows that the Romantic era can offer resources for thinking about the particular…
Romanticism and Sound Studies: Recording Romantic RelationalityEdited by: Michele Speitz
September 2024
This collection takes up two interrelated questions. One, how might the interdisciplinary field of sound studies change the way we engage with Romantic literature? Two, how can sound studies foment broader inquiries into a range of Romanticisms not exclusive to British Romanticism? Inspired by such thinking, the essays gathered here attest to…
Romanticism and Political EcologyEdited by: Kir Kuiken
February 2024
Recent work by Latour, Descola and others has argued in favor of putting the concept of nature to “death” in part because it authorizes a set of power relations grounded on a constitutive exclusion: the notion of a “nature” separate from the “social” generates a politics without due process for elements of the collective whose externality to…
Explore Past Volumes
About the Romantic Praxis Series
Romantic Circles Praxis (ISSN: 1528-8129) is a series of peer-reviewed critical volumes devoted to the field of Romanticism and its theoretical underpinnings. Closer in form to a scholarly book of essays than a critical journal, each volume in Romantic Circles Praxis Series (RCPS) explores a particular subject, figure, or theoretical approach, such as the gothic, contemporary culture, discourses of empire, and many others.
Masthead
About
Contact Us
sfy39587stp18