Seattle Sounders Vs. Chicago Fire, 2011 U.S. Open Cup Final: Preview, History On The Line For Both Clubs - SBNation.com
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
SBNation.com homepage
Horizontal - White
SBNation.com homepage
Horizontal - White
Horizontal - White
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
SBNation.com main menu
Secret Base
Breakaway
Betting
March Madness
NFL
NBA
CBB
CFB
WNBA
MLB
Soccer
UFC
Golf
F1
Wrestling
Boxing
Cycling
Features
Blogs
Podcasts
More
Secret Base
Breakaway
Betting
FanDuel Sportsbook Odds
FanDuel Daily Fantasy Sports
Betting Picks and Predictions
March Madness
NFL
All NFL
Fantasy Football
Arizona Cardinals
Atlanta Falcons
Baltimore Ravens
Buffalo Bills
Carolina Panthers
Chicago Bears
Cincinnati Bengals
Cleveland Browns
Dallas Cowboys
Denver Broncos
Detroit Lions
Green Bay Packers
Houston Texans
Indianapolis Colts
Jacksonville Jaguars
Kansas City Chiefs
Las Vegas Raiders
Los Angeles Rams
Miami Dolphins
Minnesota Vikings
New England Patriots
New Orleans Saints
New York Giants
New York Jets
Philadelphia Eagles
Pittsburgh Steelers
Los Angeles Chargers
San Francisco 49ers
Seattle Seahawks
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Tennessee Titans
Washington Commanders
NBA
All NBA
WNBA
Atlanta Hawks
Boston Celtics
Brooklyn Nets
Cleveland Cavaliers
Dallas Mavericks
Detroit Pistons
Golden State Warriors
Houston Rockets
Los Angeles Lakers
Milwaukee Bucks
Minnesota Timberwolves
New York Knicks
Philadelphia 76ers
Phoenix Suns
Portland Trail Blazers
San Antonio Spurs
Toronto Raptors
Utah Jazz
Washington Wizards
NBA 2K
G-League and International
CBB
Men’s CBB
Men’s Bracketology
Women’s CBB
View team list
CFB
All CFB
View team list
WNBA
All WNBA
Swish Appeal
Los Angeles Sparks
Minnesota Lynx
New York Liberty
Washington Mystics
MLB
All MLB
Arizona Diamondbacks
Atlanta Braves
Baltimore Orioles
Boston Red Sox
Chicago Cubs
Chicago White Sox
Cincinnati Reds
Cleveland Guardians
Colorado Rockies
Detroit Tigers
Houston Astros
Kansas City Royals
Los Angeles Dodgers
Milwaukee Brewers
Minnesota Twins
New York Mets
New York Yankees
Oakland Athletics
Philadelphia Phillies
Pittsburgh Pirates
San Diego Padres
San Francisco Giants
Seattle Mariners
St. Louis Cardinals
Tampa Bay Rays
Texas Rangers
Toronto Blue Jays
Washington Nationals
Soccer
All Soccer
English Premier League
Manchester City
Tottenham Hotspur
Newcastle
Liverpool
Everton
Manchester United
Arsenal
Chelsea
Leeds United
German Bundesliga
Bayern Munich
Dortmund
Italian Serie A
AC Milan
Juventus
AS Roma
Inter Milan
Fiorentina
MLS
Celtic
Spanish La Liga
Barcelona
Atletico Madrid
Real Madrid
Villarreal
Women’s Soccer
NWSL
Mexican Soccer
U.S. Soccer
Fantasy Soccer
View team list
UFC
MMA Fighting
MMA Fighters
MMA Fight Schedule
MMA Mania
Golf
F1
Wrestling
Boxing
Cycling
Features
Blogs
Podcasts
✕
Filed under:
Soccer
Seattle Sounders Vs. Chicago Fire, 2011 U.S. Open Cup Final: Preview, History On The Line For Both Clubs
Two of the hottest teams in Major League Soccer square off for the countries oldest soccer trophy, the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup.
By
Drew Epperley@wvhooligan
Oct  3, 2011,  3:46pm EDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Seattle Sounders Vs. Chicago Fire, 2011 U.S. Open Cup Final: Preview, History On The Line For Both Clubs
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
Osvaldo Alonso #6 of the Seattle Sounders FC and Daniel Paladini of the Chicago Fire battle for the ball in an MLS at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, Illinois.  (Photo by David Banks/Getty Images)
Getty Images
The Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup has a storied past that only a select few have been able to get their name on multiple times. Tomorrow night, history will be made again. Seattle Sounders FC are going for their third straight USOC title, a first since Greek America SC did it back in the late 1960s.
Standing in their way is the Chicago Fire, who are seeking history of their own. They would like to be the first Major League Soccer team to lift the Dewar Trophy for the fifth time, a first for a pro-era club. Chicago is 4-1-0 all-time in USOC finals matches with the only loss coming to the Kansas City Wizards in 2004. The Fire are also winless in three meetings in Seattle against the Sounders, dating back to 2009.
Both teams come into this match as two of the hottest clubs in MLS over the last two months. Since August 1, both teams have earned 19 points in league play, tied for the most with the Los Angeles Galaxy.
Seattle may have to go into this match without two key players, James Riley may be out with a concussion and MLS MVP-candidate Mauro Rosales is still having issues with a MCL sprain. Both are said to be game-time decisions for Sigi Schmid.
Chicago should be fully-fit for this match as they rested some starters in their 1-1 draw in Houston over the weekend. The Fire will need to lean heavily on Marco Pappa and the quick feet of Dominic Oduro in this one to get their offense going. Oduro has been very impressive as of late as he currently has 12 goals on the season. Pappa on the other hand is looking good as he netted a hat trick last Wednesday against Real Salt Lake.
The Fire will need a big effort from their defense as Fredy Montero has been hot as of late. Expect a fun matchup with Montero and Jahil Anibaba or Cory Gibbs.
The real fun will come down to these two clubs in the midfield. Seattle has been doing very well with creating chances and keeping possession through their midfield with veterans Osvaldo Alonso and Brad Evans. along with their wing play through either Rosales, Alvaro Fernandez and Lamar Neagle.
Chicago has been like a new team in the midfield over these last two months since Pavel Pardo and Sebastian Grazzini came on board. Both have helped free up Pappa and allow for Oduro to get open into space more often. Their defense has also been improved with the growth of keeper Sean Johnson and the back four coming together nicely.
X-Factors
Marco Pappa (Chicago) - After reviewing the RSL-Chicago game, it is still pretty clear that this club goes as Pappa goes. Oduro has done well to score as many as he has this season but Pappa is still the biggest factor going on this Fire team. Seattle will need to key in on him and eliminate the passes out of the midfield to Oduro and Patrick Nyarko.
Fredy Montero (Seattle) - 5 goals and 3 assists in last 6 MLS games is reason alone to key on on Montero. The Fire have to know that he is key to getting the offense going if Rosales is unable to play in this game.
Prediction
The crowd could be a fun factor in this one as CenturyLink Field will be packed for this game. Both have history on their side in a way in this competition. Chicago is an impressive 28-8-3 record in Open Cup play since 1998, which has helped them win four Cups already. But the home crowd and strong play from the Sounders favors them a tad bit more in this one. I like Montero to keep his current scoring up and someone like Fernandez or Mike Fucito to bag the game winner. Chicago will make this one interesting make no mistake about that but with this game in Seattle, the Sounders have the edge.
Pick: Seattle 2, Chicago 1
TV: Fox Soccer, 10pm ET (7pm PT)
For more on this match be sure to check out SBNation.com's Seattle Sounders blog, Sounder at Heart and Chicago Fire blog, Hot Time In Old Town for more information and coverage of this match.
In This Stream
MLS Super Tuesday: Sounders Win Third Straight U.S. Open Cup, NY Tops LA
Rafael Marquez: Player And Fan Emotions Fluctuate, But Quality Is Forever
Seattle Sounders Vs. Chicago Fire, 2011 U.S. Open Cup Final: Preview, History On The Line For Both Clubs
View all 20 stories
Next Up In
Soccer
German soccer match cancelled after child bites referee’s testicle
This British cheesesteak is the greatest insult to Philadelphia since Rocky V
UPDATE: LAZIO’S EAGLE HANDLER WITH A ROBOT PENIS BARRICADES HIMSELF IN TEAM FACILITIES
Alcohol to be banned from 2034 World Cup in Saudi Arabia
‘Memo’ Ochoa has been a mainstay for Mexico but is he still their man in 2026?
Why the rise of the dual national is a very good thing for U.S. Soccer — on both sides
Most Read
WNBA’s oldest player reveals she didn’t consider retirement — and keys to her remarkable longevity
Seattle Storm forward Alysha Clark — the league’s oldest player at 37 years old — had no doubts about continuing her WNBA career this season.
How a WNBA legend found her voice as a coach in the SEC
Seimone Augustus is in her first season as a college basketball coach at her alma mater, LSU. The soft-spoken superstar is the latest WNBA great to pivot to coaching.
College basketball coaching hire grades for men’s Indiana, Texas, Minnesota, Iowa jobs, and more
Let’s grade the biggest men’s college basketball coaching hires so far.
The Titans are hinting at their No. 1 overall NFL Draft pick, and they’re going to screw it up
The Titans said they’d take a ‘generational talent’ at No. 1. They lied.
Yuki Tsunoda to replace Liam Lawson at Red Bull F1, per reports
According to multiple reports Yuki Tsunoda will replace Liam Lawson at Red Bull for the Japanese Grand Prix
Sign up for the
newsletter
Sign up for the SB Nation Daily Roundup newsletter!
A daily roundup of all your sports news from SB Nation
Thanks for signing up!
Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required)
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Subscribe
close
Horizontal - White
Chorus
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Community Guidelines
Masthead
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Horizontal - Colbalt
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook