Board Game Rules, Reviews, Giveaways - Board Game Capital
Find a game...
(Advanced Search)
ADVERTISE
BOARD GAMES
GAME GIVEAWAYS
PARTY GAMES
GAME REVIEWS
DICE/CARD GAMES
CONTACT US
CHILDREN'S GAMES
Search games
search games
ADVERTISE
GAME GIVEAWAYS
GAME REVIEWS
CONTACT US
When board games are your Friday night out!!!
Find a game...
(Advanced Search)
BOARD GAMES
PARTY GAMES
DICE/CARD GAMES
CHILDREN'S GAMES
Board Game Rules, Reviews & Free Giveaways!Welcome to Board Game Capital!  If you're looking for some fun games to play with family and friends, you've come to the right place. We offer a basic synopsis of hundreds of tabletop games, official printable PDF game rules for how to play, comment boards, free game reviews, free giveaways, inexpensive advertising, a powerful game search feature and more.Contact Us to get your game added to our website for free.
Board Game Rules
View All
Icecool
Ark Nova
Earth
Abomination
Jamaica
Forgotten Waters
Plunder
Pirate's Cove
Tuki
7 Wonders Duel
Traditional board games include games that contain a board as the playing center piece.
Party Game Rules
View All
Tac Tac Jack
It's Bananas
The Uzzle
Match Madness
Tinderblox
Kabuto Sumo
Ransom Notes
Tapple
Six Second Scribbles
Bamboozled
Party games have objects other than a board to help play the game & involve more people.
Dice/Card Game Rules
View All
Doomlings
Monopoly Deal
Happy Little Dinosaurs
Teeter Tower
Dutch Blitz
Piles
Table Is Lava
Trailblazers
Liar's Dice
Ligretto
Dice and card games include games with dice or cards as the main playing center pieces.
Children's Game Rules
View All
Bermuda Pirates
Elefun
Animal Upon Animal
Kittin
Don't Rock The Boat
Don't Break The Ice
Old Maid
Operation
Battleship
Trouble
Children's games are intended for smaller kids to play and help in learning & development.
Best Board Game Lists
Looking for a list of games that all meet the same theme?  We've got you covered with our top game lists.  Check them out below.
Best Board Games For Camping, RVs, Trailers
Best Drawing Board / Party Games
Best Fast Paced / Quick Card Games
Best Get Rich Money Board Games
Best Halloween / Spooky Board Games
Best Dexterity Board Games For All Ages
Best Board Games For Toddlers / Young Children
Best Pirate Themed Board / Card Games
Official PDF Game Rules / How To Play
Can't remember how to play your tabletop game?
Is someone trying to cheat or change the game rules?
Have you lost the game instructions and can't seem to find them?
No need to worry! We have one of the largest selection of official PDF game rules on the web (like the ones that come with the game). Print them out and save them in your game box for future reference.We even try to grab the official game rules for different variations of the same game.  No matter what version you have, we strive to provide all the game rules we can so you know how to play your favorite games.  All our game rules are in PDF format so you can keep them digitally for years to come.
Game Reviews - Free Giveaways - Advertising
We love reviewing board games. They're free and quick.
Enter our huge list of free game giveaways or share a giveaway yourself.
Advertise your board game to 1,000s of people with a low cost ad.
We love sharing with others your new and developing games. Whether you choose to let us review your game, offer a free giveaway or post an ad on our site, we are here to help with most of our services being free!  We can help spread the word about your fun new game.  We'll create your very own game page so people will always know how to play your game.
©2025 Board Game Capital - About Us - Privacy PolicySome pages on our site may contain Amazon affiliate links. For more information, read through our disclaimer page.
X
X