James A. Garfield | Biography, Assassination, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica
Click here to search
Search Britannica
Click here to search
SUBSCRIBE
SUBSCRIBE
Login
https://premium.britannica.com/premium-membership/?utm_source=premium&utm_medium=nav-login-box&utm_campaign=evergreen
SUBSCRIBE
Home
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Games & Quizzes
Videos
On This Day
One Good Fact
Dictionary
New Articles
History & Society
Lifestyles & Social Issues
Philosophy & Religion
Politics, Law & Government
World History
Science & Tech
Health & Medicine
Science
Technology
Biographies
Browse Biographies
Animals & Nature
Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
Environment
Fossils & Geologic Time
Mammals
Plants
Geography & Travel
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
Entertainment & Pop Culture
Literature
Sports & Recreation
Visual Arts
Companions
Demystified
Image Galleries
Lists
Podcasts
Spotlight
Summaries
Top Questions
#WTFact
Britannica Kids
Ask the Chatbot
Games & Quizzes
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Videos
James A. Garfield
Table of Contents
IntroductionEarly life and political careerAt a glance: the Garfield presidencyRoad to the presidencyPresidencyAssassinationCabinet of Pres. James A. Garfield
References & Edit History
Quick Facts & Related Topics
Images, Videos & Interactives
For Students
James A. Garfield summary
Quizzes
U.S. Presidents and Their Years in Office Quiz
All-American History Quiz
U.S. Presidents Facts
U.S. Presidential Nicknames
Cleveland
Related Questions
What caused the American Civil War?
Who won the American Civil War?
Who were the most important figures in the American Civil War?
Why are Confederate symbols controversial?
Read Next
Have Any U.S. Presidents Decided Not to Run For a Second Term?
9 Infamous Assassins and the World Leaders They Dispatched
9 Questions About the American Civil War Answered
5 Remarkably Close U.S. Presidential Elections
9 American Political Scandals
Discover
Which Waters Do You Pass Through When You “Sail the Seven Seas”?
7 Nobel Prize Scandals
What’s Inside the Great Pyramid?
Canada: 10 Claims to Fame
22 Questions About Time and Timekeeping Answered
10 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time
Do Camels Store Water in Their Humps?
Contents
Politics, Law & Government
World Leaders
Presidents & Heads of States
James A. Garfield
U.S. Pres. James A. Garfield, color chromolithograph portrait.
(more)
James A. Garfield
20th president of the United States
Ask the Chatbot a Question
More Actions
Print
print
Print
Please select which sections you would like to print:
Table Of Contents
Cite
verifiedCite
While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
Select Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago Manual of Style
Copy Citation
Share
Share
Share to social media
Facebook
X
URL
https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-A-Garfield
Feedback
External Websites
Feedback
Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).
Feedback Type
Select a type (Required)
Factual Correction
Spelling/Grammar Correction
Link Correction
Additional Information
Other
Your Feedback
Submit Feedback
Thank you for your feedback
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
External Websites
Spartacus Educational - Biography of James Garfield
GovInfo - James Abram Garfield (1831–1881) (PDF)
GlobalSecurity.org - James A. Garfield
Miller Center - Biography of James A. Garfield
National Archives - The Murder of President James A. Garfield
PBS - American Experience - The Little-Known President
National Park Service - James Abram Garfield
Britannica Websites
Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students.
James A. Garfield - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)
James A. Garfield - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)
Ask the Chatbot a Question
Also known as: James Abram Garfield
Written and fact-checked by
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Last Updated:
Feb 13, 2025
•
Article History
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Ask the Chatbot
Quick Facts
In full:
James Abram Garfield
(Show more)
Born:
November 19, 1831, near Orange [in Cuyahoga county], Ohio, U.S.
(Show more)
Died:
September 19, 1881, Elberon [now in Long Branch], New Jersey (aged  49)
(Show more)
Title / Office:
presidency of the United States of America (1881-1881), United States
House of Representatives (1863-1881), United States
(Show more)
Political Affiliation:
Radical Republican
Republican Party
(Show more)
Notable Family Members:
spouse Lucretia Garfield
(Show more)
Role In:
American Civil War
Battle of Chickamauga Creek
Battle of Shiloh
(Show more)
See all related content
Show More
What James A. Garfield accomplished as president before his assassinationAn overview of James A. Garfield.(more)See all videos for this articleJames A. Garfield (born November 19, 1831, near Orange [in Cuyahoga county], Ohio, U.S.—died September 19, 1881, Elberon [now in Long Branch], New Jersey) was the 20th president of the United States (March 4–September 19, 1881). He had the second shortest tenure in U.S. presidential history. When he was shot and incapacitated, serious constitutional questions arose concerning who should properly perform the functions of the presidency.  Early life and political career 1 of 3Eliza Ballou, mother of U.S. President James A. GarfieldEliza Ballou, James A. Garfield's mother, in an illustration from The Life, Character and Public Services of Jas. A. Garfield (1880) by A.G. Riddle. (more)2 of 3Lucretia GarfieldLucretia Garfield, who married James A. Garfield in 1858.(more)3 of 3U.S. Pres. James A. Garfield, first lady Lucretia Garfield, and their familyJames A. Garfield with his family, lithograph by Kurz & Allison, c. 1882.(more)The last president born in a log cabin, Garfield was the son of Abram Garfield and Eliza Ballou, who continued to run the family’s impoverished Ohio farm after her husband’s death in 1833. Garfield dreamed of foreign ports of call as a sailor but instead worked for about six weeks guiding mules that pulled boats on the Ohio and Erie Canal, which ran from Lake Erie to the Ohio River. By his own estimate, Garfield, who did not know how to swim, fell into the canal some 16 times and contracted malaria in the process. Always studious, he attended Western Reserve Eclectic Institute (later Hiram College) at Hiram, Ohio, and graduated (1856) from Williams College. He returned to the Eclectic Institute as a professor of ancient languages and in 1857, at age 25, became the school’s president. A year later he married Lucretia Rudolph (Lucretia Garfield) and began a family that included seven children (two died in infancy). Garfield also studied law and was ordained as a minister in the Disciples of Christ church, but he soon turned to politics. James A. GarfieldU.S. Col. James A. Garfield, c. 1855–65. (more)An advocate of free-soil principles (opposing the extension of slavery), he became a supporter of the newly organized Republican Party and in 1859 was elected to the Ohio legislature. During the Civil War he helped recruit the 42nd Ohio Volunteer Infantry and became its colonel. After commanding a brigade at the Battle of Shiloh (April 1862), he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, and, while waiting for Congress to begin its session, he served as chief of staff in the Army of the Cumberland, winning promotion to major general after distinguishing himself at the Battle of Chickamauga (September 1863). It was about that time that Garfield had an extramarital affair with a Lucia Calhoun in New York City. He later admitted the indiscretion and was forgiven by his wife. Historians believe that the many letters he had written to Calhoun, which are referred to in his diary, were retrieved by Garfield and destroyed. For nine terms, until 1880, Garfield represented Ohio’s 19th congressional district. As chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, he became an expert on fiscal matters and advocated a high protective tariff, and, as a Radical Republican, he sought a firm policy of Reconstruction for the South. In 1880 the Ohio legislature elected him to the U.S. Senate.   At a glance: the Garfield presidency    Road to the presidency Republican National Convention in 1880James A. Garfield was selected as the Republican candidate for U.S. president on the 36th ballot at the Republican National Convention in Chicago in 1880.(more)At the Republican presidential convention the same year in Chicago, the delegates were divided into three principal camps: the “Stalwarts” (conservatives led by powerful New York Sen. Roscoe Conkling), who backed former president Ulysses S. Grant; the “Half-Breed” (moderate) supporters of Maine Sen. James G. Blaine; and those committed to Secretary of the Treasury John Sherman. Tall, bearded, affable, and eloquent, Garfield steered fellow Ohioan Sherman’s campaign and impressed so many with his largely extemporaneous nominating speech that he, not the candidate, became the focus of attention. As the chairman of the Ohio delegation, Garfield also led a coalition of anti-Grant delegates who succeeded in rescinding the unit rule, by which a majority of delegates from a state could cast the state’s entire vote. This victory added to Garfield’s prominence and doomed Grant’s candidacy. Grant led all other candidates for 35 ballots but failed to command a majority. On the 36th ballot the nomination went to a dark horse, Garfield, who was still trying to remove his name from nomination as the bandwagon gathered speed.
Britannica Quiz
U.S. Presidents and Their Years in Office Quiz
1 of 2Garfield's home in 1880Visitors arriving at the home of James A. Garfield in Mentor, Ohio, during the 1880 presidential election. In an era when it was still considered unseemly for a candidate to court voters actively, Garfield and his wife, Lucretia (who was an important adviser), conducted the first “front porch” campaign for the presidency.(more)2 of 2Campaign posterCampaign poster for James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur, 1880.(more)His Democratic opponent in the November 1880 general election was Gen. Winfield Scott Hancock, like Garfield a Civil War veteran, so both could wrap themselves in the symbolic “bloody shirt” of the Union. But Garfield also capitalized on his rags-to-riches background, and, along with a campaign biography literally written by Horatio Alger, he reached back to his humble beginnings as a “canal boy” for the slogan “From the tow path to the White House.” (“No man ever started so low that accomplished so much, in all our history,” said former president Rutherford B. Hayes of Garfield. He was “the ideal self-made man.”) In an era when it was still considered unseemly for a candidate to court voters actively, Garfield, aided by Lucretia (who remained an important adviser), conducted the first “front porch” campaign, from his home in Mentor, Ohio, where reporters and voters came to hear him speak. Notwithstanding allegations of involvement in the Crédit Mobilier scandal, in which Garfield had received $329 from stock in the notorious company (a remuneration which Democrats characterized as a bribe and played up as a campaign issue by plastering walls, sidewalks, and placards with “329”), and a forged letter that supposedly revealed Garfield’s advocacy of unrestricted Chinese immigration, he defeated Hancock (as well as the third-party Greenback candidate), though he won the popular election by fewer than 10,000 votes. The vote in the electoral college was less close: 214 votes for Garfield, 155 for Hancock.
Are you a student?
Get a special academic rate on Britannica Premium.
Subscribe