Mme Benoit's Tourti&egrave;re Recipe  - Food.com
Recipes
Breakfast & Brunch Recipes
Lunch Recipes
Appetizers & Snack Recipes
Dinner Recipes
Dessert Recipes
Drink & Cocktail Recipes
Side Dish Recipes
Grilling & BBQ Recipes
Microwave Recipes
Quick & Easy Recipes
Slow-Cooker Recipes
Air Fryer Recipes
Instant Pot Recipes
Baking Recipes
See More
Popular
Trending Now
Casserole Recipes
Chili Recipes
Soup Recipes
Pasta Recipes
Bread Recipes
Cookie Recipes
Salad Recipes
Tofu Recipes
Copycat Recipes
See More
Meat & Seafood
Chicken Recipes
Salmon Recipes
Pork Chop Recipes
Ground Beef Recipes
Shrimp Recipes
Healthy & Diet
Keto Recipes
Healthy Recipes
Vegetarian Recipes
Vegan Recipes
Mediterranean Diet Recipes
Weight Watchers Recipes
Low-Carb Recipes
Gluten-Free Recipes
See More
Holidays
Dinner Party Recipes
Game Day Recipes
Valentine's Day Recipes
St. Patrick's Day Recipes
Easter Recipes
Cinco de Mayo Recipes
Mother's Day Recipes
Memorial Day Recipes
Juneteenth Recipes
4th of July Recipes
Halloween Recipes
Thanksgiving Recipes
Hanukkah Recipes
Christmas Recipes
New Year's Recipes
Cuisine
Mexican Recipes
Italian Recipes
Indian Recipes
Thai Recipes
Korean Recipes
French Recipes
Latin American Recipes
Chinese Recipes
Japanese Recipes
Spanish Recipes
Seasonal
Spring Recipes
Summer Recipes
Fall Recipes
Winter Recipes
See More
icons / profile
PREV
PREVIOUS RECIPE
NEXT
NEXT RECIPE
Recipes
Savory Pies
Mme Benoit's Tourtière
5
Submitted by Dreamer in Ontario
"Tourtière is a French Canadian meat pie which is traditionally served at Christmas. It may be made from pork, beef or a combination of meats sometimes including veal. Different regions in Quebec have their own traditional recipes. Some regions use game such as hare or duck rather than beef and pork. The pies should not have too much filling as they are just a part of the whole traditional Christmas dinner. It's usually served with tomato ketchup. This recipe is the creation of Mme Jehane Benoit, a famous Quebec cooking expert who received the Order of Canada for her contributions to Canadian cuisine. I found this recipe on recipesource.com and on blogger.com where it was posted by Lizzy Ferland. It is originally from the Canadiana Cookbook."
icons / ellipsis / ellipsis-horizontal
save
Download
Print
Share
I Made This
photo by Dreamer in Ontario
Ready In:
1hr 15mins
Ingredients:
9
Yields:
1 pie
Serves:
4
Nutrition information
ingredients
Units: US
1
lb    ground beef (or combination of beef and pork, or beef, pork & veal)
1
small    onion, chopped
1
garlic clove, minced
1⁄2
teaspoon    salt
1⁄4
teaspoon    celery salt
1⁄4
teaspoon    clove, ground  (a must for authentic Quebecois pie)
1⁄2
cup    water
1⁄4 - 1⁄2
cup    breadcrumbs
pastry for a double-crust 9-inch pie, of your choice
Advertisement
directions
Place all ingredients except breadcrumbs and pastry in a saucepan.Bring to a boil and cook, uncovered, over medium heat for 20 minutes.Remove from heat and add a 3 or 4 spoonfuls of breadcrumbs.Let mixture stand for 10 minutes.If the fat is sufficiently absorbed by the breadcrumbs, do not add more. If not, add more crumbs in the same manner.Cool mixture and spoon into a pastry-lined pie plate.Cover with crust and bake at 400F until golden brown (follow directions for pie crust you chose).Serve hot.NOTE: Cooked tourtière may be frozen for 4 to 5 months and does not need to be thawed before reheating.To reheat, place your frozen tourtiere (covered in foil) in a medium oven and bake until a knife inserted in the center is hot when you pull it out.
icons / social / pinterest
icons / email
Questions & Replies
Sign In  to Ask a Question
Got a question?
Share it with the community!
Advertisement
Want a Second Helping?
Sign up for our newsletter to get recipes, easy dinner ideas, tasty treats and more delivered straight to your inbox.
By entering your email address, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the Privacy Policy. Food.com and its affiliates may use your email address to provide updates, ads, and offers.
Sign Up
To withdraw your consent or to learn more about your rights, see the Privacy Policy.
Reviews
MOST POPULARMOST RECENT
Write A Review
My late husband was French Canadian so I lived in Quebec almost 50 years. Mme Benoit's tourtiere recipe is the one I've been using all these years and I still have to make it for my children and grandchildren for every holiday meal when I visit them in Quebec. I make mine with pure pork only. As ground meats today have little or no fat in them, I always ask the butcher to add some to the pork when he grinds it. Makes the pies more moist and more flavorful.
icons / ellipsis / ellipsis-horizontal
Borderbully
Reply
2
I do not have the Canadiana Cookbook but I do have Madame Benoit Cooks <br/>At Home.  The pastry recipe is:  2 cups all purpose flour, 1 tsp salt, 1/2 tsp baking soda, pinch of turmeric, 1/4 tsp savory, 1/2 cup lard, 1/3 cup ice water, 1/3 cup butter.  Stir the flour, salt baking soda, turmeric and savory together in a bowl. Cut in lard with a pastry blender or two knives until the particles are about the size of peas.  Add ice water by the tablespoon, stirring with a fork or the tips of your fingers, until just enough has been added so that you can pat the dough lightly into a ball. (Since flour varies, you may not need all of the water). Handle the dough as little as possible at this stage. Roll out the pastry, dot with the butter, and roll up toward you like a jelly roll, and roll out again in a flat sheet.  Roll out again 2-3 times.  Refrigerate a few hours before using. <br/><br/>In my cookbook the recipe calls for 2 medium potatoes, peeled and grated.
icons / ellipsis / ellipsis-horizontal
Mary.a
Reply
1
This is a great pie but I wonder why you didn't include the pastry recipe since it is important to stay true to the  authenticity of the entire pie. I"ve made this pie for many years and lost my Canadiana cookbook and I cannot remember the pastry recipe. If  anyone has the book I would be grateful to get the pastry recipe
icons / ellipsis / ellipsis-horizontal
qnbea1
Reply
1
See 2 Replies
In Mrs. Benoit's 1963 version of tourtiere... is made ONLY with pork. The recipe also calls for celery pepper (not celery salt), which I have researched and is only available in finer food/gourmet shops in Quebec....OR.... you cam make your own which is 2 parts celery powder (not seeds) & 1 part pepper.  I am French Quebecois by ancestry. My mother used to make this traditional holiday staple with ragout de boulette (pork meat balls in gravy) and patte de cochon (pigs feet). So delicious!
icons / ellipsis / ellipsis-horizontal
Marc G.
Reply
Mme Benoit's edipes are, as always, tried, true and absolutely delicious. This pie is no exception.
icons / ellipsis / ellipsis-horizontal
captrjd
Reply
Advertisement
RECIPE SUBMITTED BY
Dreamer in Ontario
Canada
icons / following
Follow Me
81
Followers
445
Recipes
84
Tweaks
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement
YOU'LL ALSO LOVE
How to Peel Peaches, 3 Ways
27 Healthy Lunches for Kids
20 Icelandic Recipes
20 Cambodian Recipes to Try at Home
View All Recipes
Related Pages
Tourtiere (French Canadian Meat Pie)
Alice's French Canadian Meat Pie - Tourtiere
The Best Belgian Waffles
French Canadian Meat Pie
French Canadian Tourtiere Pie
French Canadian Tourtiere
The Perfect Shortcrust Pastry
Mom's Meat Pie (Tourtière à Ma Mère)
Tourtiere (French Canadian Meat Pie) - Dairy Free
Find More Recipes
Search
Back To Top
icons / social / facebook
icons / social / pinterest
icons / social / twitter
icons / social / youtube
icons / email
All Categories
Site Map
About Us
Help
The Discovery Family of Networks
HGTV
DIY Network
Food Network
Cooking Channel
Travel Channel
HGTV Poland
© 2025 Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. or its subsidiaries and affiliates. All rights reserved.
Advertise
AdChoices
Privacy Policy
Visitor Agreement
California Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information