We Provides Comprehensive Electronic Subcontracting Services | Diversified Companies
Call Us (763) 784-9600
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
Home
About Us
Products
Our Services
Contact
Request Quote
Hook up with Excellence!
Diversified Electronics & Assembly, Inc. provides comprehensive electronic subcontracting services including Wire Harnesses, Cable Assembly, Cut and Strip Wires, Wire Prep, Wire Wrapping, Wire Terminating, Electromechanical Assembly, Chassis Assembly/Box Builds, and Hand Soldering. We have built our business around high quality products, a superb record of customer service, and a commitment to excellence.
Our Capabilities
Diversified Electronics capabilities range from complicated wire and cable harness assemblies to simple wire processing. For OEMs, Diversified Electronics offers a very attractive, low cost alternative to setting up, expanding, operating, and maintaining a specific manufacturing department of their own.
Our Services
Diversified Companies, Inc. wire and cable assembly services include, but are not limited to:
VIew All Services
Custom cable assemblies
Custom Wire harness and terminal block assemblies
Custom Fan/Blower lead terminations
Custom Filter assembly
Custom Power cords/Modifications
Custom USB & Network Cables
Our Products
Diversified Companies specializes in the manufacturing of cable assemblies according to customers' specifications. The cable assemblies produced by Diversified Companies can be used in a wide range of applications, including telecommunications, aerospace, military, medical, automotive, and industrial applications. These cable assemblies are critical components that connect electronic devices and systems, enabling them to function correctly.
How it Works?
01.
Click onRequest Quote
02.
Complete theDetails
03.
We will contact in 3 Business Days
Tooled for the Following Manufacturers and More
Our Quote Process is Easy
1
Request
You can send us your requirements, We will analyze your needs and schedule a time to visit
2
Choose
After reviewing our bid and selecting the product you want and confirm the bid we will schedule an meeting
3
Finalise
Our complete discussion we will finalise all the your requirements and get it done
Request A Quote
We help you to build a your dreams with our services.
Identify Goals
Identify goals to create a clear map of your business and express your desired future.
Bring Ideas to Life
Bring ideas to life with our complete range of products for every stage of your business
Identify Goals
We help businesses grow by developing, improving existing ones and eventually rolling out national or international distribution.
View All Services
Quality & Reliability
We provide additional quality and reliability in our standard and custom wire harness assembly products with in-process inspections, and 100% mechanical and electrical quality testing of each and every item. We also offer customized labeling and individual packaging to suit each customer's requirements.
Our attention to your scheduling requirements, in addition to our computerized order and inventory tracking system, always ensures your on time delivery.
Diversified Electronics has capabilities that range from complicated wire and cable harnesses and PC board assemblies to simple wire processing. We are a very attractive, low cost alternative to setting up, expanding, operating, and maintain a manufacturing department of your own.
We can do it!
Identify Goals
Diversified Electronics has a customer service philosophy based on partnering with our customers to develop solutions to their needs on a long-term basis. Our "We can do it!" attitude delivers the support and problem-solving expertise you need for a quick-turn project or with a problem design.
Highest Quality Material
With Diversified Companies, our commitment to excellence begins with the highest quality material and components, and best workmanship from a highly skilled and continuously-trained technical staff.
Need Help?
Phone
Contact us using phone
Call Us
Email
Contact us using email
Email Us
Live Chat
Contact us using live chat channel
Chat Now
Request a Quote
Get a free quote by filling out our form. We will get back to you with your customized quote!
Request Now
Request Quote Now
Get a free quote by filling out our form. We will get back to you with your customized quote!
Get Started
Certifications
Company
Menu
About Us
Careers
COVID 19 Response
Our Services
Press Release
Products
Request A Quote
Legal
Menu
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Cookie Policy
Contact
8260 Arthur Street NE, Suite C • Spring Lake Park, MN 55432
info@diversified-companies.com
Call Us
(763) 784-9600
© 2023 Diversified Companies | (763) 784-9600
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube