What's Jade Raymond up to these days? | Eurogamer.net
Skip to main content
2025 Release Schedule
AC Shadows Tips
AC Shadows Best Weapons
AC Shadows Romance
Supporters only
Deals
Buy eShop codes
Go
Support us
Sign in / Create account
Latest
PC
PlayStation
Xbox
Nintendo
Digital Foundry
News
Reviews
Videos
Features
Guides
If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission.  Read our editorial policy.
Home
News
What's Jade Raymond up to these days?
Ubisoft boss sings woman's praises.
Image credit:          Eurogamer
News
by Ellie Gibson
Former Deputy Editor
Updated on March 28, 2008
50 comments
Follow Assassin's Creed
Ubisoft boss Yves Guillemot has offered the first hint at what Jade Raymond's plans are now Assassin's Creed is out of the way.
Raymond, you may recall, worked as the producer on the game, and received much attention for being a hot lady. Or, hey, just for being great at her job, as Guillemot would have it.
"I view Jade as a very skilled and creative producer," he told GameDaily.
"The success of Assassin's Creed leaves no doubt about that and the attention she received from the media is due to the anticipation, buzz and quality of the game."
As for what's next: "She's currently working on a new project but it's a little too early to share more about it."
Could it be a sequel to Assassin's Creed? No one's saying anything, but Guillemot certainly sounds keen on the original. "We have never received as many compliments from gamers as we did for Assassin's Creed. Some might dislike certain aspects of the game, but it undoubtedly brought a radically fresh and innovative take to the adventure genre," he observed.
"This game shows that our industry has reached a new level, and I'm not really surprised that it gets polarised critics, just as a strong movie would. As you know, such a success with a totally new IP which took so many risks in order to redefine the genre is unprecedented."
You can read what it was about Assassin's Creed that polarised Tom over in his review.
Jade Raymond is 33.
Read this next
Ubisoft chief exec takes sizeable pay cut after company's poor performance
The wild story behind why the first Assassin's Creed has side missions
Assassin's Creed 1 now back compatible on Xbox One
Ellie Gibson: Ellie spent nearly a decade working at Eurogamer, specialising in hard-hitting executive interviews and nob jokes. These days she does a comedy show and podcast. She pops back now and again to write the odd article and steal our biscuits.
View comments (50)
In this article
Assassin's Creed
PS3,
Xbox 360,
PC
Follow
Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles
iOS,
Nintendo DS
Follow
See 1 more
Assassin's Creed: Director's Cut Edition
PC
Follow
Related topics
Blockbuster
Nintendo Wii
PC
PS2
PS3
PSP
Xbox 360
Eurogamer is better when you sign in
Join our community of gamers and get access to personalised reading recommendations and much more!
Sign in with Google
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Twitter
Sign in with Reddit
Sign in with email
Latest News
Game publishers talk challenges of GTA 6 launch in new report: "We don't want to be anywhere near that"
Sunderfolk release date and more announced at Dreamhaven showcase hosted by The Game Awards
Paradox's troubled Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2 gets another delay
Here's who Catherine O'Hara will play in The Last of Us, marking a significant change from the games
Monster Hunter Wilds' first major content update detailed ahead of next week's release
Fortnite adding The Walking Dead assets, including Negan's baseball bat, so you can make your own skull-cracking mini-games
PS5 update just released - here’s what it does
Latest Guides
All shrine locations in Assassin's Creed Shadows
Assassin's Creed Shadows Sumiyoshi Shrine pray locations
Assassin's Creed Shadows Ember location
Assassin's Creed Shadows romance, including Naoe and Yasuke romance options
Assassin's Creed Shadows Nishinomaru Garden location
All kakurega locations in Assassin's Creed Shadows
Honkai Star Rail 3.2 livestream date and time, 3.2 Banner leaks
Top Discussions
Assassin's Creed Shadows team responds as game launches to Very Positive Steam rating
93
Nintendo reportedly has three-phase launch plan for Switch 2 games
55
Japanese shrine aided by Ghost of Tsushima fans announces tourist ban
53
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 won't have a mini map to preserve its sense of discovery, says producer
50
"It's OK to make a small game," says Astro Bot director on its AA-level success
49
Indiana Jones and the Great Circle PS5 release date confirmed
46
Shadow of Mordor's Nemesis system was actually created to reduce second-hand sales
33
Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited, an IGN Entertainment company and subsidiary of Ziff Davis.
© 2025 Gamer Network Limited, 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. Company number 03882481.
All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.
Helpful Links
About Us
Advertise with us
Archive
Authors
Contact Us
Corporate Site
Interactive Maps
Manage push notifications
Newsletters
RSS Feeds
Policies
Accessibility Policy
AdChoices
Code of Conduct
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Review Policy
Terms & Conditions
Gamer Network
Dicebreaker
Digital Foundry
GamesIndustry.biz
Nintendo Life
Pure Xbox
Push Square
Rock Paper Shotgun
Time Extension
VG247
Across Europe
Eurogamer.de
Eurogamer.es
Eurogamer.pl
Eurogamer.pt