Utah Water Rights
Division of Water Rights
Office of the State Engineer
About Us
The Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi) is an agency of Utah State Government
within the Department of Natural Resources that administers the measurement, appropriation, apportionment, and distribution
of the State's valuable water resources.
Learn More
Water Rights
Distribution and Regulation
Well Drilling
water_vocGeothermal
Dam Safety
Stream Alterations
Adjudication
Proofs
Title
Enforcement
Water Use Reporting
Canal Inventory
Water Right Search
Search Menu
Map Search
Resources
Applications/Forms
Informative Brochures
Training Videos
Policies by Water Right Area
Distribution Assessment Payments
FAQ's
How do I change my address on the Division of Water Right Records?
How can I sign up to receive email notifications for water rights?
I want to build a house and need a well. What do I need to do?
I understand I need to buy a water right. How do I go about it?
How do I know if a water right I’m thinking about buying is a “good one”?
View More
Current Issues
Public Meeting - Proposed Determination Completed - Provo City South A55 Bk6
Basic Title Training Session in Cedar City
Basic Title Training Session in Vernal
Public Meeting - Addition of Lakeside Irrig Co to Spanish Fork River Dist Sys.
Public Meeting - Groundwater Management Plan Development for Sand Hollow
Public Meeting - Proposed Determination Completed - Provo City North A55 Bk7
View More
Office Hours
The Division of Water Rights office hours are from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Monday through Friday.
Our office is closed for Federal and State holidays.
Please use the contact list to make arrangements.
Connect with us
Utah Division of Water Rights phone, opens in a new tab
Utah Division of Water Rights email, opens in a new tab
Utah Division of Water Rights Youtube, opens in a new tab
Utah Division of Water Rights Facebook, opens in a new tab
Utah Division of Water Rights Instagram, opens in a new tab
Utah Division of Water Rights Twitter, opens in a new tab
Utah Division of Water Rights LinkedIn, opens in a new tab
Division of
Water Rights
Contact Info
1594 West North Temple Suite 220Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6300
P.O. Box 146300
801-538-7240
waterrights@utah.gov
Helpful Links
Natural Resources