EMJ Marketing
1-855-396-6830
bookings@emjmarketing.com
Toggle navigation
Home
Our Speakers
Auctioneers
Business Speakers
CFLAA
Community Ambassador
Curling
Emcee
Keynote Speakers
NFL Alumni
NHL Alumni
Sports Celebrities
TV Celebrities
Entertainment
Music
Events
Events Calendar
Events Promotion
Bookings
Store
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Cart
Search for:Search Button
Corey MaceCorey MaceGo To BioAmy GoldbergAmy GoldbergGo To BioMind2Mind ProductionsMind2Mind ProductionsGo To BioJill OfficerJill OfficerGo To Bio
Looking for a Speaker for your Event?
Book Now
Our Speakers
Keynote Speakers
Looking for a Keynote speaker for your next event?  Look around our site and you will find the speaker you want.
CFLAA
As the exclusive booking agent of the CFLAA we have the right speaker for you.
Sports Celebrities
Looking for a Sporting celebrity of your event?  We have it all: football, curling, hockey and many more.
Entertainment & More
Along with live bands we have television personalities, auctioneers and business speakers.
Our services
Graphic Design
Looking to get some graphic design work done?  Send us an email and we will be glad to help you find what you are looking for.
Web Development
Whether it is large or small. WordPress or coding we can help you out.  Visit our Web Development site to see some of our work.
Events Promotion
EMJ Marketing can provide you with all the necessities for you event. If you need collaboration on your event or are just looking for some promotional tools, we are the team for you. EMJ Marketing will provide you the very best in quality, service and promotion for your event. We are able to offer the following:
ltd radio
LTD Radio is fiercely, proudly Canadian. And yes, we play buckets full of music by Canadian artists every day.
Listen Live
Business Marketing
Need to get your business into the lime light?  Let us know and we can help get you there.
Sales
Visit our store to view items to purchase
Sponsors
Are you interested in marketing opportunities!
Take you advertising to the next level with EMJ Marketing!
Sign up for our News letter!
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Testimonials
Lafleche & District Lions ClubLafleche & District Lions Club“The whole audience loved our speakers, Wes Cates and Scott Schultz, never heard one negative comment about the whole night including our emcee who humoured the audience throughout the evening. I would recommend EMJ Marketing for any fundraiser that you are doing as they were more than helpful at all times of the day and very easy to get along with. “
Lincoln Harding – Lafleche & District Lions Club
Hanley Composite SchoolHanley Composite SchoolThe work that EMJ did to get this sponsored was amazing.  Can’t say enough about our whole experience!
Mark Anderson - Vice Principal, Hanley Composite School
Amber BalcaenAmber Balcaen"Amber was awesome!  Over 500 attendees heard a great heartfelt message and it was inspirational to those students who started their work career!  Thanks for getting us to the Winners Circle!"
Charles Walker
EMJ MarketingEMJ Marketing
EMJ Marketing &  Craig Hemmingway worked with us to  ensure a seamless well planned program for the PRISM Awards Gala.  Craig provided humor at appropriate times in an appropriate manner. He is a natural at recognizing the listeners & adapting to their style.  We look forward to working together in the future.
Business Women of Moose Jaw
EMJ MarketingEMJ Marketing
We can't thank EMJ and Rod Pedersen enough for their contributions to our inaugural sports dinner and auction. As a new committee throwing its first major event of any kind, we really appreciated the ease and efficiency with which EMJ looked after our arrangements, and even more so the wit, presence and professionalism Rod brought to our event. Rod had the entire room at ease within seconds of taking the stage, and kept the night flowing smoothly. It felt like he knew half the room, and he interacted with them accordingly. Rod also went way above and beyond what was asked of him by making a very generous offer that contributed greatly to our live auction proceeds. He even shared a handful of Roughriders related stories throughout the night despite only being booked as MC and not as a keynote speaker. We would not hesitate to work with EMJ again in the future, and Rod is welcome in our community any time.
Sedley Sports Dinner Committee
EMJ MarketingEMJ Marketing
Thank you for all your help in organizing Don’s presence at the event, and for going above and beyond to make sure he got here when things maybe didn’t quite go according to plan!
Heather, Director of Promotions – Gormley Gathering 2018, Rawlco Radio Ltd.
Facebook-f
Twitter
Linkedin-in
Instagram
Listen Live!
up coming events
View main Calendar - here
2021 EMJ Website Design
Modality Theme powered by WordPress