Waiting For Lars Anderson | Fire Brand of the American League
Home
Boston Red Sox
Advertise
Contact Us
Select Page
Waiting For Lars Anderson
by aconvery | Nov 12, 2011 | Boston Red Sox, Lars Anderson
We’re waiting for Lars Anderson. Of course, this has been the case since he was drafted by Boston in 2006. He’s been the next great thing, he’s been a bust, he’s been a maybe. Really, he’s been everything but what was expected: a solid major league player.
Drafted in the 18th round in the 2006 amateur draft, only because there was great concern over his signability as he was already committed to the University of California at Berkeley. The Sox paid him 825,000 when they signed him, more than most supplemental first-rounders make. Since then he has toiled in the minors, at first rising through them at a normal pace, before hitting a road block in 2009 and never really recovering.
To give you a better idea, the first base prospect went from being talked about as one of the staples in a potential deal for Seattle ace Felix Hernandez three years ago to nearly being traded for a half a year of Rich Harden this past summer. The Harden deal would have gone through were it not for spotty medical records, but the fact that the Sox were ready to part with Anderson merely to obtain a fourth starter to string along the last few months of the season should say enough about how far his stock has fallen.
Despite his defensive mediocrity, Anderson was immediately heralded when he entered Boston’s system. Praised for his plate discipline, some claimed that Anderson’s biggest problem was that he was not aggressive enough. Scouts made extensive note of his fluid and smooth swing, saying that his power potential was elite. With a frame that many assumed would fill out, and a smooth swing, his ceiling seemed limitless.
And it was at first. Anderson’s first two years in the system were fabulous, especially 2008 in which he hit .317 with a .408 OBP in 358 plate appearances. After that season, Anderson went into a tailspin and has never recovered. Anderson has proven to be a streaky player, prone to long slumps, but also to hot streaks in which it seems impossible for him to make an out. Some might say that this slump has been longer than the others…by a few years. Others would simply say that he’s amounted to all he can be: a replacement level player.
Anderson’s swing has always been too big. He has finished with a K% of over 20.00 in every season. Along with that, he has not turned out to be as much of a fly ball hitter as many scouts believed he would be upon initial evaluation. The fact that he hasn’t hit fifteen homers in a season yet is a bit unnerving, especially considering that Anderson’s major upside was his power. With not much speed at all (he doesn’t have more than five stolen bases in a season), and little defensive prowess, Anderson doesn’t have much going for him.
Yet, despite all of this, things may be looking up. Anderson posted arguably his best year in the minors this past season, posting career highs in home runs, RBI’s, and stolen bases. Even more encouraging was his career low 20.8 K%; still high, but down from years previous nonetheless. Scouts have also commented on his improved defense, citing his strong ability of picking balls on errant or short throws.
So where does Anderson end up? If I had to guess, I would bet that he’s traded for a back of the end starter, ala what the front office tried to pull this summer. At this point, first base is locked up for the next six years with Adrian Gonzalez, and it’s looking more and more likely that David Ortiz will return as Boston’s designated hitter for at least next year. With this in mind, it’s hard to see Anderson playing any significant role on this team, especially with more talented infield prospects like Will Middlebrooks and Kolbin Vitek also dwelling in the minors.
So we will continue to wait for the Californian native. Wait for the power, for the plate disciple, for the frozen ropes off the monster. Yet, with seemingly no place to play, it may be difficult for Anderson to get any chance at all. And with that notion in mind, it seems more likely that Anderson is the one who is doing the waiting. Waiting for that call from the major league team, waiting for that at bat in the ninth inning with the game on the line, waiting for the ambivalent cheer after his player introduction. Really, waiting for one thing: a chance.
Facebook
Twitter
Google
RSS