CalHospitalCompare.org – Your guide to quality hospitals in California
Skip to main contentCalHospitalCompare.orgYour guide to quality hospitals in CaliforniaMember LoginFind Hospitals
About
Programs
Choosing Hospitals
0My Hospitals
0
Hospitals
Compare Hospitals
Search
Apply for the SUD Care Honor Roll Program April 1 - June 30, 2025Browse featured content
Ratings You Can Trust.
Cal Hospital Compare makes it easy to find andcompare the quality of hospitals in California.
Compare Hospitals
Search
This search includes Hospitals.
Apply for the SUD Care Honor Roll Program April 1 - June 30, 2025Browse featured content
WHY YOU CAN TRUST OUR RATINGS
At Cal Hospital Compare, we start with data from multiple sources andengage health care experts to ensure our ratings are more meaningful for you.
Multiple sourcesof public data
In-depth analysis,measurement & scoring
Accurate, reliable& relevant ratings
Some Hospitals Are Better Than Others
Cal Hospital Compare rates hospitals in California on clinical quality, patient experience, and patient safety. See how the hospitals near you rate!
Hospital performed well above average
Hospital performed better than average
Hospital performed within the average
Hospital performed worse than average
Hospital performed well below average
Hospital QualityVaries Widely
Cal Hospital Compare helps you find quality ratings for hospitals near you. The site is not affiliated with any health facility or agency, and it’s free to use!
About Us >>
Why HospitalRatings Matter
Our ratings provide you with a clear view of how hospitals are performing and who’s doing the best job. Learn how you and your family can get the care you deserve.
Hospitals >>
Featured Findings from Our Data
The experiences of mothers in California hospitals - small or large, urban or rural - can vary dramatically. See how two women had very different experiences.
Read Article >>
Better ratings. Better decisions. Better healthcare.
Rating Key
To learn more about the rating scale and methodology, read About the Ratings & Data Sources.
Hospital performed well above average compared to other providers on this measure.
Hospital performed better than average compared to other providers on this measure.
Providers performed within the average range compared to other providers on this measure.
Hospital performed worse than average compared to other providers on this measure.
Hospital performed well below average compared to other providers on this measure.
Provider performance has not been rated because there is not sufficient data.
Rating icons are registered trademarks of the California Health Care Foundation. All rights reserved.
See a Data Issue?
Let us know.
Report Issue
Send
Choosing Hospitals
Ratings & Data Sources
About
Contact
FAQ
© 2025 Cal Healthcare Compare. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. For informational use only. Not intended to be relied on for medical diagnosis, treatment, advice, or endorsement of any provider. Confirm accuracy of data with provider.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy