Sensory Baby & Toddler Classes | Music Bugs
World Nursery Rhyme Week - 11th to 15th November 2024
Home
About Us
Shop
Contact us
FAQ
Find your nearest class
menu
About Us
Class locations
Parties
Nursery
Franchise
News
Sensory baby and toddler music classes.
The first 5 years of a child’s life last forever. Come and spend a few of them with Music Bugs.
Babies and children love music and singing and they love spending time with other children. So bring them along to your local Music Bugs class where they can do what they do best – singing, exploring, finding their rhythm and making new friends.
No two weeks are the same and our carefully planned (gently structured) sessions will stimulate and delight and support your child in developing those all-important early developmental skills at their own pace.
Our sessions help to support all key areas of early childhood development: confidence, independence, creativity, an enquiring mind and those crucial language and communication skills.
Please contact your nearest session leader for further details and to book.
In addition to our weekly classes, we also provide sessions for Early Years settings, birthday parties for ages 1-5 (higher in some areas).
We are also very proud to be the founders, sponsors and organisers of World Nursery Rhyme Week a global initiative which promotes the importance of singing and rhymes in early childhood.
Our four age group options
World Nursery Rhyme Week
Music Bugs Parties
Music Bugs Nursery
Read all about it
The Power of Singing: How Songs Boost Your Child’s Confidence
Read News
Shop til' you drop
Featured Product
Show Me
Our Awards
Find your nearest class
Barnsley
Darlington
Doncaster
Edinburgh Central
Glasgow South
Halesowen
Harlow
Huntingdon and Corby
Leeds
Lincoln
Milton Keynes
Northampton
Northdown
Norwich
Peterborough
Romford
Rotherham
Rutland
Scunthorpe and Grimsby
Sheffield
Shrewsbury
Southampton
Stirling
Sunderland
Taunton
Join us & join in
Newsletter Sign Up Subscribe to Newsletter
© 2025 Music Bugs
|  Registered VAT: 410 070 660
|  MusicBugs brand identity designed by sprout.uk.com
| Cookie Policy
| Sitemap
| Terms & Conditions
| Privacy Policy
Web Design by Full Phat Design
* Calls to 0844 numbers will cost 5 pence per minute plus your phone companies access charge
Manage Consent
To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behaviour or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent