Aisle Say (Seattle): SEXUAL PRACTICES OF THE JAPANESE     AISLE SAY Seattle SEXUAL PRACTICES OF THE JAPANESE by Manami Hara, Hiro Kanagawa,
James Long and Maiko Bae Yamamoto
Directed by James Long and Baiko Bae Yamamoto
Theatre Replacement
at On The Boards
100 W. Roy St.
Seattle, WA 98119 (206)217-9886  Reviewed
by Jerry Kraft  I
must admit that the title of "Sexual Practices of the Japanese" suggested to me an evening of
tittering sex farce, or perhaps an ironic set of sketches with the dark edge of
"Closer" or the cross-cultural impenetrability of "Lost in Translation."
This show is really akin to none of those things, although there is some
resonance with the serious, adult distance and dissonance of that last film. What
this talented ensemble from Vancouver, Canada has created is an intelligent,
remarkably complex, agreeably comic and surprisingly touching engagement with
Eros in contemporary Japanese society. The two men and one woman are skilled
and committed. Funny and readily connected with the audience, they weave three
storylines into a challenging, tight 80 minutes that begins on-board that most
impersonal of conveyances, a Japanese subway train, and stand
"uncomfortably close" to us so that we can know the uncomfortable
confluence of flesh and society, of personal desire and impersonal cultural
mores, of commerce and desire. The
evocative set design (Long, Yamamoto, Barbara Clayton and Colin Cooper) is simply a row of ubiquitous
gray suits suspended on wires, as neat and tasteful as they are empty and
impersonal. The two young women, dressed in the short, plaid school uniform
skirts of the kogals, wander about the stage pre-show, whispering and tussling
with boredom, occasionally focusing on an attractive man joining the audience.
The play begins when they ask the audience what comes to mind when they hear
the words, "sex" and "Japan." From
there, a clever lighting effect places us on that crowded subway train, the
suits becoming the crowd on commuters, and one of the young women begins to
relay the story of a 15 year old girl who is groped and violated by some
strange, anonymous man. That story is interwoven with another setting, the
corporate workplace where Japanese women struggle to achieve equality in a
context profoundly sexist and ingrained. A woman with constructive ideas about
the Matsukawa corporations new product, a wireless device for producing mutual
orgasm between people who don't have to touch, is ignored by the repressed and
autocratic owner of the company (Raugi Yu). When
they have a later encounter in one of the notorious "love hotels" the
awkward sex is played in counterpoint to an atrocious bar singer moaning
"Rub Me Tender". Finally, a very funny and curiously compelling
storyline focuses on the American baseball superstar and Japanese iconic
celebrity, Ichiro Suzuki. Skillfully interwoven to vary and reinforce the
themes of traditional social constraint and contemporary sexual expression, the
whole of the evening is tight and entertaining, the final resolution touching
and satisfyingly coherent. The script, by Manami Hara, Hiro Kanagawa, James
Long and Maiko
Bae Yamamoto is
beautifully crafted and genuine. The
two actresses, Maiko Bae Yamamoto and Manami Hara, are funny, skillful, charming and sexy, making
both the playful and the painful elements of the story convincing. Raugi Yu, as the corporate businessman,
certainly wields the power of his position, but also gives us the vulnerability
of an emotionally compromised and sexually alienated captive of his culture.
The scenes are well-focused, convincingly played and skillfully directed by Long
and Yamamoto. I especially admired the skill with which both actresses
interacted with the audience, both in question and answer and in an extended
skit where an audience member was brought onstage to play a quiz about Ichiro.
In balance with the artifice of that haunting stage design, Veda Hille's imaginative Music composition,
and Barbara Clayden's costumes, this audience participation not only entertained, but
truly brought us across the lights and more intimately into the play, and into
the milieu of Japanese culture. Theatre
Replacement is an independent company working out of Vancouver, and this is
their first and exclusive American engagement. Talented and committed, these
actors and writers have much to say and plenty of theatrical expertise with
which to say it. "Sexual Practices of the Japanese" is fun and
smartly amusing, but also substantial and quite compelling. It's an excellent
show. Return to Home Page