Philip J. Lazarus, Ph.D.  President-Elect of the National Association of School Psychologists
Bio
Issues
Presentations
Publications
For SP Students
Q & A
Contact
Philip J. Lazarus, Ph.D. is a Past President of the National Association of School Psychologists. Dr. Lazarus has served as the Director of the School Psychology Training Program at Florida International University for 30 years and his primary responsibility has been to train school psychologists.
Dr. Lazarus has been interviewed by a number of news sources including CNBC, CNN, the Glenn Beck Show, Newsweek, Seventeen Magazine, Washington Post, and Reader’s Digest, and has appeared on numerous radio talk shows dealing with such topics as depression in children, anxiety in children and adolescents, responding to natural disasters, coping with trauma following school shootings, school violence, helping children deal with grief and trauma following 9-11, bullying in schools, threat assessment, and identifying troubled students.
Advocating for the Emotional Well-Being of our Nation's Youth
Advocating for school
psychological servicesvideo
Advocating for reinstatement
of school psychologists 2 videos
School psychological services are
essential for school safety video
Important Issues
Advocating for the Emotional Well-Being of Our Nation's Youth
Submitted by Philip Lazarus on Mon, 10/19/2009 - 21:40
Issues
I firmly believe that we are neglecting the emotional well-being of our nation’s youth. We, as school psychologists, understand that while the IQ of our students has increased about a third of a point every year, the emotional health of our students has deteriorated dramatically over the past three decades. According to the Surgeon General’s report, one out of every five children needs mental health intervention in order to be successful in school. It is an alarming fact that more teenagers died from suicide than from cancer, birth defects, AIDS, pneumonia, influenza, and
CONTINUE READING
Advocating for School Psychological Services
Submitted by Philip Lazarus on Mon, 10/19/2009 - 20:22
Issues
In May 2008, 41 school psychologists in Miami-Dade County Public Schools received notice that they would no longer be employed as school psychologists for the county school system. In addition, it was feared that 80 school psychologists would also be let go. As a result of this action, I was asked to serve as a spokesperson for the county’s school psychologists and to help mobilize all our resources to have this decision reversed. In the article that appeared in the NASP Communique, I highlight how we were able to come together as a community and
CONTINUE READING
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
The questions I have received have been about the proposed revisions to the APA Model Licensure Act. If elected, I promise to devote all the necessary resources to ensure that non-doctoral level school psychologists will not be called professionals formerly known as school psychologists.Question 1: I am concerned about the implications of the APA Model Licensure Act on the practice of school psychology. What impact could this have on our profession?
CONTINUE READING
COMMENTS FROM COLLEAGUES
This year Phil was nominated for the NASP lifetime achievement award by the Florida Association of School Psychologists. In supporting his nomination, four colleagues wrote letters of support. Here are excerpts.
CONTINUE READING