davidbrubeck.com
davidbrubeck.com
Skip to content
Stereograms
Biographies
Music of Charles J. Campbell
DUO BRUBECK
DUO WINDS trOmBOnE tm
DUO BRASS !
Music for Sale
5-Minute Lessons for Pre-Elementary Trumpet or Trombone
The Pedagogy of Arnold Jacobs
“The Fourth Valve” tm
“The Craftsmen’s Bench” tm
“Seven Positions” tm
“FIVE!” tm
“The Jazz Bass Trombone” tm
David Brubeck Solo Bass Trombonist
Radio
← Older posts
DUO BRUO!  Duo Brubeck at Josefina’s Coffee House, featuring NEW Guitarist and Derek Sanguino Saturday,  RECHEDULED TO 5 April 2025 11 am to 1 pm
Posted on February 24, 2025 by David Brubeck
New Jazz Brunch Menu!
New Repertoire inspired by the youthful Derek Sanguino, who is the same age Mr. Lippincott and I were when Duo Brubeck began!  (And has studied with both Tom and Mitch!)
Formerly Filomena’s Coffee House  ADDRESS: 19481 Sheridan St, Pembroke Pines, FL 33332
Duo Brubeck, “You Are My Sunshine”.
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on DUO BRUO!  Duo Brubeck at Josefina’s Coffee House, featuring NEW Guitarist and Derek Sanguino Saturday,  RECHEDULED TO 5 April 2025 11 am to 1 pm
Is The World Anxiously Awaiting The Return Of…
Posted on February 6, 2025 by David Brubeck
5-minute Lessons for Trombone???
GOOD NEWS!  THEY’RE BACK!!!!  AND THEY ARE REVOLUTIONARY!!!!  (REALLY!  SEE BELOW!)
Gordon Cherry has them HERE!
You can have them, too!   Enjoy…..
REVOLUTIONARY, YOU SAY?  YES!
Brubeck served as Chief Educational Officer for one of the two major plastic trombone companies for a number of years and developed his 5-Minute Lessons for Trombone and his 5-Minute Lessons for Trumpet to START FROM ZERO, and allow VERY YOUNG musicians to play these much lighter plastic instruments. While another line of plastic trombone pedagogy settled Alto Trombones, 5-Minute Lessons uses traditional Bb Tenor Trombones BUT RESTRICTS THE POSITION USE TO THE FIRST FOUR POSITIONS! These are the positions reachable by “short arms”.
THE LESSONS START ON THE IDEAL NOTE FOR EASE OF PLAYING AND PROPER EMBOUCHURE DEVELOPMENT.
Based on his studies and analysis of the works of Arnold Jacobs and Shinichi Suzuki, this book also draws upon Brubeck’s experience as a published composer and jazz musician. Rarely does an advanced musician concern themselves with beginner materials in such a thorough and fresh manner.
Tired of boring rhythms and “school music”? These methods were presented before the 40th International Trumpet Festival in Columbus, Ohio and contain original compositions with lyrics; compelling rhythms; buzzing, breathing and singing techniques associated with the Chicago School of brass-playing as well as embouchure formation associated with the East-Coast Schools. Brubeck has taught trombone for more than 40 years and conducted youth orchestras for more than 35. This method balances the best of classical pedagogy with fresh American rhythms and approaches. Enjoy!
26 POPPING-FRESH PAGES INCLUDE:
Prelude A: Breathing, Relaxing & Re-Relaxing With a Steady Tempo
Prelude B: Mouthpiece Placement, Embouchure Formation & Buzzing
Prelude C: Posture, Slide Motion, Articulation, Assembling & Holding the Instrument
Lessons Nos. 1-4: Simple melodies in the range of a Major Second, then a Minor Third and lastly a Major Third; Focusing on Positions 1-4
Songs for Short Arms I: Original Compositions To Play & With Words to Sing!                                                Sliding and Gliding, Keep That Slide Smooth & Lips Have got to rest
Lesson No. 5: Melodies up to a Perfect Fourth, focusing on glissandos
Prelude D: Counting and clapping rhythms comprised of half-notes, quarter-notes and eighth-notes
Sight-reading for Short Arms: Four, Short Passages : Yellow, Blue, Red & Green, using mostly quarter-notes and half-notes in the range of a Major Second and a minor third. Intended to be sight-read in the lessons without prior preparation.
Lessons Nos. 6 & 7: Range increases to an Augmented Fourth with a focus on articulation exercises and the introduction of eighth notes to play.
Rhythms for Short Arms: Blues, Rock & Pop Rhythms in compelling melodic pitch sets for young people.
Songs for Short Arms II: Focuses on accents, longer melodies and pick up notes-(anacruses).
Lesson No. 8: Melodies with a emphasis on glissando, and with increased range to a minor sixth.  This includes approaching higher notes through glissando and familiar music transposed to a new key.
Prelude E: Targets on warm-ups by using positions 1-4 on two partials with glissandos.
Prelude F: Basic clapping and counting in 6-8 meter in addition to more difficult counting and clapping in 4-4 meter with 16th notes.
Rhythms for Short Arms B: Melodies featuring shuffle rhythms in 6-8, and lightly swung rhythms in 4-4 with some repetitive syncopation.
Rhythms for Short Arms C: More advanced melodies featuring shuffle rhythms in 6-8, and lightly swung rhythms in 4-4 with syncopation as well as Blues songs.
Lesson No. 9: Natural slurs, rounds, more difficult melodies in 6-8 and 3-4. Range increases to a minor seventh.
Rhythms for Short Arms D: Pop-Rock ground bass variations, and a bass-line type melody.
Lesson No. 10: Popular melodies with a range up to a Perfect Octave. Active breathing exercises, articulation patterns and another warm-up table in three partials of 1-4 positions.
Scales for Short Arms: Three-Note, Four-Note, Five-Note and Eight-Note Scales in Major, minor, Major Pentatonic and minor Pentatonic.
c. 2025 David William Brubeck.     All Rights Reserved
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on Is The World Anxiously Awaiting The Return Of…
The Gig-Target
Posted on February 1, 2025 by David Brubeck
The Gig-Target: Part I Stereograms
(Are YOU hitting the center?)
My friend, a trumpet player, just laughed as we discussed my wedding gig on trombone. “You really do not have a clue, do you?”, I seem to remember him saying something to the effect of, “first comes the leader, in your case-the drummer, next he needs a singer and a keyboard player-if you are lucky, one that can play left-hand bass. Then he needs to hire trumpet, saxophone and probably guitar. IF you get called at all, you are going to be the seventh or eighth person called, at best!”
Wow! Was he right. In my mind I imagined a ‘gig-target’ and the concentric red and white alternating circles. The visual image of being the 12th or even the 16th call for a big band, or the 50th call for an orchestra seemed both daunting and dizzying, as now the target began to swirl and my head swim.
The same trumpet player, John, preferred brass quartet of two trumpets and two trombones to a quintet-easier to book (often at better pay), a more matched sound and all four players more likely experienced in jazz-which opened up the repertoire.  His book had hundreds of quartets and included faculty from University of Miami and alumni of the Philadelphia and Metropolitan Opera Orchestras. I was at least fourth there, often second, but how to get closer?
The obvious thought was to be first was to be the leader. The best bass trombonist I knew who led a professional big band was Peter Graves. Peter is an excellent musician, fine bass trombonist and was a times the Music Director for Jaco Pastorius’ Word-Of-Mouth Big Band as well as The Atlantean Driftwood Band, Frank Sinatra’s Band when on tour in South Florida and other national acts. Through Peter, I had the privilege of playing for Stevie Wonder, The Four Tops and Steve Lawrence snd Eydie Gourmet.
“If I am not the worst musician on the band stand”, I remember Peter once told me, “I’m not doing my job!”
As a college jazz band director and youth orchestra director, I just was not searching for another director job, but to play my bass trombone. I wanted to #1 or #2 on the gig target.
Once college ends, if you do not choose to seek or win a regular position playing, you might need to create your own ensembles. Any college, school or church that will have you is a good place to start-try to find the best keyboardist possible and balance playing what you love with well-known masterpieces and pieces the keyboardist & audience will enjoy.
But what about being able to walk into a room, like a keyboardist or guitarist, and keep everyone’s attention all by yourself? How long could it be done on a bass trombone, Five minutes? Ten? HOW could you do it? A Bach Suite?
Inspired by Bach’s ‘cello suites, Bobby McFerrin and Duke Ellington, I set about to be able to walk into a room alone, and capture and hold the audience’s attention for 20 minutes.  Maybe even a set!   Two sets?
I came upon the idea for “Stereograms”, and developed my view that the bass trombone contained a jazz orchestra worth of sounds.  Just as a visual stereo gram, or 3-D image contained two images within a single visual presentation, so I hoped that my aural “Stereograms” could weave two, three or even four parts within a single melodic line. Not with classical rhythms alone, but with modern and jazz-infused rhythms.
To date, 30 original Stereograms are published in two separate collections by the International Trombone Association Press. Other originals and more than a dozen arrangements or transcribed solos would follow, offered for free online at yeodoug.com, davidbrubeck.com and in the journals of the British “Trombonist”, as well as the international journals of the Double Reed Society, Trombone Association & Tuba & Euphonium Association.
Suddenly wonderful trombonists from around the globe began tecording them, including:
While all of these advanced Stereograms were NUMBERED, a clamor rose for some Stereograms that were easier. Next, Gordon Cherry with Cherry Classics published more than a dozen, easier, LETTERED Stereograms A-M. And now, several of the less advanced, lettered Stereograms N-Z are available free.   Approaching Stereograms often introduces the concept of “voicing” to the young trombonist.  This idea, which is common to pianists is all but almost unknown to many trombonists.  In voicing, each of the separate voices implied within the single melodic line is imbued with its own characteristics of dynamics, articulation and character.
Please enjoy Stereogram V, dedicated to trombonist and Salsa Legend Barron W. rogenstein AKA Barry Rogers.
c. 2023 David Brubeck. All rights Reserved
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on The Gig-Target
Hmmmm.  DUO BREWBECK?, At Filomena’s Coffee House in Pembroke Pines? Jazz Brunch-Yummmm!  Let’s Get Roasted!  SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1st 2025 11:00 am to 1:00 pm.
Posted on January 25, 2025 by David Brubeck
ADDRESS: 19481 Sheridan St, Pembroke Pines, FL 33332
Jazz Legend Jonathan Kreisberg said our original Duo Brubeck featuring Tom Lippincot was a “MUST HEAR”! The group began in 1989 at a jazz brunch, not unlike this one! Come relive the very beginnings of Miami’s Own Duo Brubeck, now featuring Jazz Guitar Legend Neil Bacher.  Since 1989-We built this city on JAZZ!
The musical team that brought you the No. 1 selling jazz recording of all time, Dave Brubeck the elder and Paul Desmond. TAKE FIVE!  My third-cousin and the man I was named after.
PS YOU ARE IN LUCK! The coffee is MUCH better now than in the 1980’s. FIND OUT-COME GET ROASTED! Just a little? Or maybe a Latte? All the coffees pair well with the smoothest jazz duo since Duke & Rabbit, Dave & Paul-(or just about anyone with Jim Hall).
Come and HEAR what we “Filo”-mean!  BRAND NEW cafe with NEW and BEAUTIFUL interior.  Comfy couches, too-IF you can beat us to them!  Sweet vibe!  Experience Jazz-Alive!
AMERICA’S GREATEST MUSICAL GENIUS, Duke Ellington with her great soloist “Rabbit”, or Johnny Hodges.  (Pretty sure he’s ordering the salad!)
Tunes by Duke Ellington, Thelonious Monk, “TOM”-Antonio Carlos Jobim, Miles, George Gershwin, The Beatles, Bill Withers, Claire Fisher, Johnny Mercer, Stevie Wonder, Chick Corea, J. S. Bach, Frank Foster, and even the “Funky Soul of The Bass Trombone”–Dave Brubeck the Younger!
Valve trombonist Bob Brookmeyer and Jim Hall carried on the trio legacy of the great Jimmy Giuffre in the duo format.  They are so good, we don’t even miss the slide-too much!  Our vote for best JAZZ Duo without a pianist, of all time!
c. 2025 David WIlliam Brubeck All Rights Reserved
PROGRAM SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Our approach cannot be duplicated-this is a once-in-a lifetime sound!
Enjoy!
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on Hmmmm.  DUO BREWBECK?, At Filomena’s Coffee House in Pembroke Pines? Jazz Brunch-Yummmm!  Let’s Get Roasted!  SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1st 2025 11:00 am to 1:00 pm.
DUO BRUBECK LIVE!  Friday 24 January 2025 7:00 pm
Posted on January 21, 2025 by David Brubeck
Miami’s Own– Duo Brubeck, featuring Neil Bacher, is slated to appear Friday evening 24 January 2025 at Studio 18 Art Complex, 1101 Poinciana Drive, Pembroke Pines, FL 33025 at 7:00 pm.
Experience 18 visual artists dedicated to sharing not only their art but their creative spaces with the public, patrons aa well as lovers of art and the creative process.  Tour their exhibits and enclave while listening to live music!
The event is open to the public; attire is casual.
Neil Bacher, Jazz Guitar Legend, joins bass trombonist David Brubeck in the innovative jazz group-Duo Brubeck.
Duo Brubeck has performed at numerous venues and concert series throughout South Florida, and was featured in performance in Los Angeles, California at the 2017 Festival of the International Trombone Association, who touted the Duo in a ten-page feature in their Journal.
These two musicians have spent their lives crafting personal sounds that are individually identifiable and beautifully combine.  Featuring arrangements and treatments of standards and originals, their approach is fresh, innovative and impossible to duplicate.
DUO BRUBECK originated as a collaboration between college friends Tom Lippincott and David Brubeck as a duo combining the unusual and satisfying pairing of jazz guitar and bass trombone. Mitch Farber later joined the duo which has also included Lindsay Blair and Dr. Russ Spiegel.
c. 2025 David William Brubeck
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on DUO BRUBECK LIVE!  Friday 24 January 2025 7:00 pm
3 More Venetian Italian Renaissance Duets (Third Recorded Collection by DUO BRASS)
Posted on January 1, 2025 by David Brubeck
Ornate columns in colorful marble outside Basilica San Marco from the Constantinople tradition, if not Constantinople herself!
The Ten Italian Renaissance Duets Increasingly Point to Being Originally Written for Cornetto and Tenor Trombone.
These mysterious, mostly sacred duets from late Renaissance Venice seem more and more likely to have been written for brass, specifically the cornetto and tenor trombone. The ranges of the music seem to exclude any other likely instruments commonly employed at St. Mark’s Basilica, while fitting the cornetto and trombone like a glove. Historical records point to at least one of each instrument in the employ of the famous Basilica for over a hundred years. If this thesis is correct, these duets form the earliest and most significant collection of literature for mixed brass duo. The sight-reading of these recently rediscovered Venetian/Ten Italian Renaissance Duets were recorded by Duo Brass, featuring Morgen Low on trumpet and David Brubeck on bass trombone and were drawn from transcriptions recorded by Dr. Charles Campbell in Italy. No. 4. Salve Regina, from the Cherry Classics publication, venerates the Virgin Mary, Mother of Jesus the Christ.
FEATURED DUO BRASS RECORDING: 4. Salve Regina
Mosaic of Mary and Jesus the Christ from Basilica Hagia Sophia in formerly Orthodox Christian Constantinople-(Byzantine/New Roman), now Istanbul.  (Similar images are often referred to as Madonna with Child.)  Mary is an inspiration for Salve regina. Image from legacyicons.comMosaics Mosaics are usually found on walls or ceilings and often intended to be viewed from a distance in the tradition of Orthodox Christian Constantinople and her satellites: Bursa, Ravenna, Venice, etc. These mosaics are are most often made of numerous small glass tiles (or tessarae) which are tilted to best catch the light, have painted or golden backing and reflect sacred themes. Some tessarae are stone, or even gems. According to the 1978 Chartwell Books publication, Byzantium, “The year 1425, in which famous Renaissance Paolo Ucello was called to Venice, was a significant date in this respect, for it signalled the end of the traditions of mosaic and Byzantine art in the city of canals.”The use of stone mosaics, particularly on the floor with tiles not made of glass, significantly predates the New or Eastern Roman Empire at Constantinople-(330-1453 AD). However, it could be considered that it was their empire who raised Mosaics to the form of high art. Many complete Orthodox Christian mosaics may still be viewed at Basilica San Marco, and no doubt were an inspiration to the many great Venetian composers and musicians who performed there.
FEATURED DUO BRASS RECORDING: 5. Angelus ad Pastores
Angels Announcing Birth of Christ, by Govert Flinck from biblestudy.com
An Inspiration of Angelus ad Pastores: taken from The New Testament of The Holy Bible   Luke 2: 10-13 But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people. 11 Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you; he is the Messiah, the Lord. 12 This will be a sign to you: You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.”from Bible Gateway
FEATURED DUO BRASS RECORDING: 10. Laudate Dominum
Pilaster of Angels Sounding Trumpets from the Parapet of a Pulpit | Workshop of Giovanni Pisano, from met museum.org. Which Instrument Does Archangel Gabriel Play? While the traditional Hebrew and Latin vision of the six-winged archangel Gabriel depicts playing the Egyptian-invented trumpet, it seems as though the artist here may have been inspired more by the cornetto of Venetian fame. Note the conical shape, the curious curve and the finger placement-as though covering holes. By contrast, owing to a mis-translation of a stringed instrument sackbrett to the brass sackbut in an British Bible translation, English tradition held that angels play both trumpet and trombone, while the musically trained Martin Luther favored the image of the Archangel Gabriel playing the male-voiced brass instrument (and German-invented), posaune or trombone; which is arguably the most tasteful option!
Psalm 117 (116) (An Inspiration for Laudate Dominum)
1 Praise the Lord, all you nations;    extol him, all you peoples.2 For great is his love toward us,    and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever.
Praise the Lord.[a]
from biblegateway.com, this is the shortest of all the Psalms from The Bible.
Another Candidate for the First Symphony Orchestra to Rival The Gabrielis?                                       Monteverdi himself conceived of his opera orchestra for Orfeo in three main sections : brass (2 cornetti, 5 trombones and 3-4 trumpets); strings(violins, violas, celli and double basses); and continuo (2 organs, 2 harpsichords and a reed organ for keyboards, 2-3 chitarrone, a double harp, 3 bass viola da gambas, 1 cittern and 2 recorders). While Monteverdi’s impressive Overture to Orfeo features the trumpet quite prominently, when the symphony of brass return to prominence in the Act III, it is two choirs without trumpets. The remaining brass are sounded in a manner every bit as expressive and interesting as the use of the string orchestra. Roughly organized in two choirs or sections, one section had one cornetto and three trombones while the other choir utilized one cornetto with two trombones. This use of cornetto and trombones is noted as further illustration of a relatively common pairing during this era, supporting the conclusion of the duets being written for the two instruments. Additionally, this use of the trombone in ACT III also makes it more clear that the trombone is at least as likely that the instrument of primary importance in the development of the symphony orchestra as the violin, satisfying a minimum of two-thirds up to three-fourths of the symphonic, non-continuo, sound. (116″ on..)
The Sculptures of Four Horse from Constantinople’s marvelous statuary exhibit were relocated to Basilica San Marco after the treacherous siege and 80-year occupation undertaken by Dandolo and the Latin Christians against the Orthodox Greek Christians of Constantinople, circa 1200 AD.  This “Triumphal Quadriga” was later relocated to Paris, France after the surrender of Venice to Napoleon, only to be returned to Venice later, where they are now displayed indoors.  Replicas are visible in the original Venetian location-on the outer structure.  The horse’s heads were removed in the transfer from Constantinople to Venice, and the collars were installed to cover the marks.  Photo from www.ImagesOfVenice.com
THROUGHOUT THE RENAISSANCE AND EARLY BAROQUE, CORNETTO & TROMBONE ARE PAIRED! This brass writing found in Monteverdi’s Orfeo is sophisticated, complex and virtuosic and not merely trumpeting bombast. The duo pairing of cornetto and trombone finds an echo in this opera orchestra of Monteverdi-one of the greatest opera composer’s of all time. By considering that these duos must satisfy a pairing common to the time, this further argues for the likelihood of these duos being intended for tenor trombone and cornetto. The ranges of the instruments now become doubly important as it is the TWO ranges taken together which fit such an important and historically extant musical pairing so well.
When Monteverdi left his post with the Duke of Mantua (who had commissioned Orfeo), he first travelled to Rome to offer his services to the Pope. When the Pope refused to meet with him, Monteverdi sought and obtained employment at Basilica San Marco in Venice-(La Serenissima). There, he was also lured to produce his operas at what may be considered the first PUBLIC opera house, Teatro San Cassiano. Monteverdi’s successors at Venice’s Teatro San Cassiano included many great composers, and most famously, Antonio Vivaldi!
Did Monteverdi compose the first relatively complete opera? It is almost certainly the earliest opera most commonly stage and still stands today.  Did Claudio Monteverdi and Alessandro Striggio’s Orfeo first add dance (or ballet) to opera?  Was Monteverdi’s Orfeo the first to provide opera a memorable overture of significance?
Venice’s Claim to the Originator of Opera to Rival Florence. Interestingly, in 1585 AD Venice, Andrea Gabrieli composed music to accompany the texts to the choruses of Sophocles’ Oedipus Rex.  These beautifully homophonic settings seem to predict the later ‘second practice’ of having but one melody-seemingly “leap frogging” decades of rival monody to arrive at a more modern outcome.  Similarly, given that the stated goal was to accurately recreate Ancient Greek Drama, the thesis of the Florentines and their Camerata was that these dramas were ENTIRELY sung. This has more recently given way to the Venetian thesis of Andrea Gabrieli that that it was more likely only the choruses.
When added to the other operatic accomplishments of Venice: publishing the original treatise on Opera, opening the first public opera house in 1637 AD and welcoming and encouraging the operatic career of the greatest composer of early opera, Claudio Monteverdi, Venice’s contributions to early opera begin to rival that of even Florence herself.  Monteverdi, from Cremona, was employed at the court in Mantua when Orfeo was composed, but composed his last three great operas in Venice, while mounting productions of previous operas there as well.  Monteverdi was certainly opera’s principal popularizer if not her greatest pioneer, as well.
Andrea Gabrieli’s composition was four-years before Bardi & Cavalleri appeared to present the first successful performances of a multi-movement series of recitatives for a Medici wedding in 1589 AD and twelve-years before the first opera, Drama per Musica-(Dafne), was presented in 1597 AD (now lost).  Gabrileli’s Oedipus Rex was fully fifteen years before the first surviving opera, Euridice, in 600 AD!
Claudio Monteverdi,  by Domenico Fetti, 1640 from musicologie.org
The 800-Pound Gorilla in the First Symphony Orchestra…                                                                                  If one is seeking the most music from a single instrument, keyboard instruments cannot be ignored.
Keyboards feature in early sacred and secular instrumental ensembles, as a staple of continuo in the Baroque and even a member of early classical symphonies. One of the favorite aspects for many musicians playing in a ballet orchestra is not only the great literature but the frequent inclusion of the piano within the symphony orchestra.  From Broadway pit orchestras, to jazz trios to almost any form of accompaniment-keyboards are king!  Monteverdi employed contrasting use of keyboards and harp in Orfeo to provide contrasting emotional color that reflected the textural content of the sung texts in an impressive manner. (Peri used similarly contrasting keyboards in Euridice.).  Many symphonic compositions by both Andrea and Giovanni Gabrieli as well as their prize pupil, Heinrich Shutz, include keyboard.
In the history of the sacred an operatic symphony orchestra, a case could be made that the pipe organ and keyboard instruments are of central importance. In many sacred and operatic settings, one or two keyboard instruments may provide the fundamental sound of the ensemble and other instruments serve either as contrasting choirs or as soloistic colors.  An organist alone, or especially an organist in conjunction with another keyboard instrumentalist such as a harpsichordist or pianist,  may indeed provide a more complete basis of symphonic sound than even a trio of trombones or two sections of violins!  Listeners to the operatic symphony orchestra of Monteverdi’s Orfeo may draw a similar conclusion.
The very first, initial symphonic pieces, where specific instruments were indicated, were direct descendants of keyboard pieces. The main limitation for consideration as the primary instrument at the genesis of the symphony orchestra, as opposed to the trombone and violin, is that keyboard is a consistent INTERFACE, but the instruments change wildly from harpsichord, organ, piano, clavichord, synthesizer, etc. As an interface, however, keyboard reigns supreme.
For a more scholarly discussion of opera, please consider this link to the papers presented at the University of Illinois on the 400th anniversary of the creation of opera in 2000 AD.:  http://www.sscm-jscm.org/v9no1.html
Would you like to heat more Venetian Renaissance Brass Duos by DUO BRASS, featuring Morgen Low on Trumpet and David Brubeck, bass-trombone?  This is the THIRD article featuring their recorded sight-reading session.  The second recorded duos from this collection 6. Omnes gentes 3. Ego flos campi, may be found HERE:
2 More Venetian/Italian Renaissance Brass Duets
Find the FIRST three recordings, Canzona Francesca a’ 4 del Segundo Tuono , Canzona francese a 8 dette la Carissima & 7. Panatum cor meum, and accompanying article may be found HERE:
Did We Miss Something? No. 3.                              Renaissance Duets                                                                                   THESE REWRITE EARLY BRASS DUO HISTORY
c. 2025 David William Brubeck All Rights Reserved.
COPYRIGHT NOTICE/DISCLAIMER
FAIR USE:
COPYRIGHT DISCLAIMER UNDER SECTION 107 OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT 1976, ALLOWANCE IS MADE FOR “FAIR USE” FOR PURPOSES SUCH AS CRITICISM, COMMENT, NEWS REPORTING, TEACHING, SCHOLARSHIP AND RESEARCH.FAIR USE IS PERMITTED BY COPYRIGHT STATUTE THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE BE INFRINGING.  NON-PROFIT, EDUCATIONAL OR PERSONAL USE TIPS THE BALANCE IN FAIVOR OF FAIR USE
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on 3 More Venetian Italian Renaissance Duets (Third Recorded Collection by DUO BRASS)
Dedicated to Chuck Connors, Bass Trombonist with Duke Ellington from 1961, Stereogram (Yet Un-Numbered)
Posted on December 27, 2024 by David Brubeck
Performance notes:
Grace notes after beat 3 are; m. 7 pedal ‘A’; m. 9 pedal ‘A’; and m. 11 pedal ‘Bb’.
[      ] in m. 12 designates an optional 8vbasso, with the low ‘F’ played instead as pedal ‘F’.
Straight (eighth-note), measures include 17, 19 & 21 as well as the first beat of 18, 20 & 22.   The rest is Swing!
The Del segno to Fine section is measures 9-15.
The pedal note in m. 16 is a ‘Bb’, and may be played up an octave.
ENJOY!
PS:  If you play single-valve Bass Trombone-you are especially welcome!
Below is a reprint of a related article included in the davidbrubeck.com series “The Jazz Bass Trombone”, No. 2
An Interview with Marc T. Bolin, by David William Brubeck1. How would you describe the use of the bass trombone in Duke Ellington’s orchestra? (Jazz bass trombone being defined as having a .547 bore or larger with at least one valve).Ellington didn’t begin to utilize a large-bore trombone until 1961 with the addition of Chuck Connors. Duke always used the three trombones prior to 1963 as unique and individual voices that would blend to create a particular sound-(the sound unique for each tune that matched the sound in his mind’s ear),…and that would be determined in part by who was playing which part as this would depend on each tune. I would describe Ellington’s trombone section up until then as trombone 1, 2, and 3…not, tenor 1, 2, and bass trombone. Dig? It wasn’t until the addition of Connors that Ellington would utilize a more stereotypical sound of two tenors and a bass section sound.
2. Why did Duke seem to favor three trombones? When did he switch to four?Moon Mist recorded in Chicago late January 1957 (track 8) utilizes 6 trombones: Lawrence Brown (tracks 1-3 & 8-17), Buster Cooper (tracks 1-3 & 8-17), Quentin Jackson (track 8), Britt Woodman (track 8) – trombone, John Sanders – valve trombone (track 8), Chuck Connors – bass trombone (tracks 1-3 & 8-17)
Ellington was back to using three bones on the Symphomaniac (Symphonic or Bust) [recorded and released on the Reprise label in 1963] is certainly a huge sound. But, that’s Ellington. Ellington was able to get a sound out of three trombones that most jazz arrangers could only get using four.
Swinging Suites by Edward E. & Edward G. (also known as Peer Gynt Suite/Suite Thursday…or “Zweet Zurzday”) Ellington recorded for the Columbia label in 1960. Ellington made use of the four-trombone sound here, too. But, curiously he only used four on the Grieg stuff – Lawrence Brown, Mathew Gee, Booty Wood, and Britt Woodman – all tenors of course.
A Concert of Sacred Music Live from Grace Cathedral and on DVD as Love You Madly/A Concert of Sacred Music at Grace Cathedral. The official album on RCA, A Concert of Sacred Music, was recorded at two concerts at Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York on December 26, 1965.
The concert premiered on September 16, 1965. (First Sacred Concert); Lawrence Brown, Buster Cooper, Quentin Jackson, Britt Woodman – trombone, John Sanders – valve trombone, Chuck Connors – bass trombone.
January 19, 1968, Ellington’s Second Sacred Concert ; Lawrence Brown, Buster Cooper, Bennie Green – tenor trombone, Chuck Connors – bass trombone.
Third Sacred Concert, October 24, 1973, Ellington was back to writing for three trombones. Art Baron, Vince Prudente – trombone, Chuck Connors – bass trombone.
Graphic, Artist Unknown.
3. Which is the first trombone part you are aware of that goes below low ‘E’, and would require a trigger?I believe Ellington’s first use of the bass trombone (as BASS trombone…below low ‘E’) to be on the album “Afro-Bossa” recorded and released for Reprise in 1963:Low ‘D’ in “Moonbow”Low ‘C’ in “Absinthe”“Pyramid” has and interesting quasi-ostinato figure; Low ‘C’Low ‘C’ Jam with Sam 1966 (Live (7/27/66-Cote D’Azur)The Ella Fitzgerald & Duke Ellington Cote D’Azur Concerts On Verveand he keeps getting lower…Low ‘B’ in “Afrique”, from The Afro-Eurasian Eclipse, recorded in 1971 and released on the Fantasy label in 1975
4. Do you think that Harry Carney’s incredible tenure with Duke Ellington predisposed Duke’s thinking of the Bari-sax as the bottom of the winds, and as his first consideration for a bass voice solo instrument?I’m not sure Carney’s sound has a direct correlation to the “bass” sound in Ellington’s head, at least one that would relate to Ellington’s use of the bass trombone. “Agra” from the Far East Suite, Carney walks all the way down the instrument (Bari here), in a loud, gruff manner. Ellington never really uses Chuck (or Taylor) in that way.
5. When did Duke perform with tuba as opposed to string bass?It seems that 1927 is the pivotal year that Ellington switches from tuba to bass. “East St. Louis Toodle-Oo”, Welman Braud plays tuba. In the very next recording, “Black and Tan Fantasy”, Braud is heard playing string bass. It is interesting to note that Duke is still using banjo here. While, in the minds of many, there is a link between banjo and tuba, Ellington and Braud can be credited with the innovation of using the double-bass rather than the tuba in jazz rhythm sections.”
Braud’s initial recording sessions with Duke were in October 26, 1927. In “Washington Wobble”, Braud takes a short pizz solo. Braud’s brief solos are important, because some historians maintain Bill Johnson’s solo on Johnny Dodd’s July 1928 “Bull Fiddle Blues” is the first recorded pizzicato jazz bass solo. Also, Braud has been characterized as a two-beat player, but he often played four-beat pizz walking style, such as the November 1928, Okeh recording of “Misty Mornin'”, which is both arco and four-beat style. On a November 3, 1927 recording of “Black and Tan Fantasy”, Braud switches from arco to pizzicato and back. For the March 1928 Victor session of “Black Beauty”, Braud utilizes double-time. On a November 1928 session, “I Can’t Give You Anything but Love” Braud recreates the tuba intro he played on an earlier version, but this time on bass.
Chuck Connors, Photographer Unknown
6. Did you know Chuck Connors?Chuck Connors was a friend of mine. Sometime, (I think it was 1991) I was in need of a bass trombone as I had hocked mine. I was put in touch with Chuck through a mutual friend who ran a big band in town (Pavilion Music Company), Marcus Ware. I called Chuck and he said to come on by and pick out a horn. He said I could borrow one as long as I needed! I drove to his house, then rang the bell…his wife (Betty I believe) answered the door. She told me that Chuck was at a doctor’s appointment and would return shortly. She showed me around their modest home. Hundreds of pictures hung on the wall; some family pictures and artwork, but mostly pictures of Chuck with members of the Ellington band, playing in the Ellington band, of him with celebrities, etc. Occasionally she would point and reminisce…at pictures of Chuck with “Diz”, Ellington, and Sammy Davis, Jr. I was star-struck.
Chuck returned. We continued to peruse the pictures on the wall and worked our way down some stairs to the basement. There were maybe twenty trombone cases strewn around the basement. He brought several closer to me and opened the cases: a Conn single-valve, a Bach 50B single-valve, a Remington Contempora single-valve, and one I can’t recall. He mentioned that he was playing a 50B double-valve lately and that any of these were mine for the choosing. I played on them all and opted for the Reynolds Contempora. I fell in love with this horn. I’ve seen several pictures of Chuck playing, or posing with this horn in his. It makes me smile every time. We stayed in touch. By the time I returned the horn, Chuck had past. I returned the horn to Betty. I don’t know what happened to that horn…but, my memories of Chuck reside permanently in the recesses of my mind. When I hear his sound, I am taken back to my youth in Cincinnati, Ohio where a man made an indelible impression on me as a musician and human being.
I believe my career was in part, shaped by the generosity of Chuck Connors. His sound, the Ellington Orchestra, his kindness and warmth as a person and musician – ELLINGTON – all played a role in shaping my career choices.
c. 2013 David William Brubeck All Rights Reserved davidbrubeck.com
****************************************************************************************************
Marc T. Bolin has performed with some of the world’s finest artists and organizations such as B.B. King, Dee Dee Bridgewater, Lalo Schifrin, Herman Olivera, Pete Escovedo, Sheila E, Black Eyed Peas, Deltron 3030, Aloe Black, and Stevie Wonder. He recently participated in a State Tour of China playing traditional Jazz, performed with the Ambassadors of New Orleans’ Jazz at the Red Sea Jazz Festival in Israel, has performed in two of Philip Glass’ Operas Akhenaton and La Belle et la Bete, and has even played on the Mississippi Riverboats. In 2007 Marc was commissioned to realize Duke Ellington’s incomplete opera “Queenie Pie” for the Oakland Opera Theater then in 2008 was invited to present his research and reflections in his paper Realizing the Duke at the Echoes of Ellington Conference at UT Austin. In addition to Oakland and UT Austin’s productions, both Long Beach Opera and Chicago Opera Theater will perform Queenie Pie in 2014.
COPYRIGHT NOTICE/DISCLAIMER
FAIR USE:
COPYRIGHT DISCLAIMER UNDER SECTION 107 OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT 1976, ALLOWANCE IS MADE FOR “FAIR USE” FOR PURPOSES SUCH AS CRITICISM, COMMENT, NEWS REPORTING, TEACHING, SCHOLARSHIP AND RESEARCH.FAIR USE IS PERMITTED BY COPYRIGHT STATUTE THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE BE INFRINGING.  NON-PROFIT, EDUCATIONAL OR PERSONAL USE TIPS THE BALANCE IN FAVOR OF FAIR USE
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on Dedicated to Chuck Connors, Bass Trombonist with Duke Ellington from 1961, Stereogram (Yet Un-Numbered)
Badiniere for Bass trombone and Piccolo Trumpet
Posted on December 23, 2024 by David Brubeck
Published in the International Trumpet Guild HERE.
THESE DUOS ARE GIG-SAVERS!  Playable by a combination of almost any ONE treble clef ‘C’ OR Bb instruments and almost any one ONE bass clef instruments, THESE DUETS ARE ALWAYS IN MY CASE IN THE EVENT SOMEONE IS RUNNING LATE OR NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO MAKE THE GIG!
These work for any one of these:
Trumpet, Violin, Oboe, Clarinet, Soprano Saxophone, Flute,
with any one of the following:
Bass-Trombone, ‘Cello, Euphonium, Bassoon, String Bass, Tuba, Euphonium, etc.
Published by Cherry Classics.
Enjoy!
Duo Brass, performing Flow My Tears by John Dowland
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on Badiniere for Bass trombone and Piccolo Trumpet
BRASS DUOS AT ITG CONFERENCE 2015!  “Flow My Tears”, for Brass Duo, A Reprint from the ITA Journal
Posted on December 23, 2024 by David Brubeck
ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED IN OCTOBER 2014
On 27 May 2015 at 11:15 am the brass duo format will be explored at the 2015 International Trumpet Guild Conference at Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio. Anchored by trumpeters Peter Wood, Marc Reese, bass trombonist David Brubeck and a list of all-star trumpet players, the duos of the Brubeck-Neal Duo will be presented in this lecture recital.
Soon to be published by Gordon Cherry as Cherry Classics, this collection of ten concert duos have been arranged performed and refined over the last several seasons by Brian Neal and David Brubeck. Listed below, courtesy of the International Trombone Association, is a reprint of the Brubeck-Neal Duo arrangement of Flow My Tears by composer John Dowland, from the April 2014 ITA Journal. This and Badinerie, published in the Journal of the ITG, are but just two of more than a dozen duos spanning a variety of genres to be featured at the ITG lecture recital on the emerging genre of duo brass.
Here is a brief clip of the Brubeck-Neal Duo in concert as part of the Music in Miami Concert series performing their arrangement of Air on a G String by J. S. Bach.
c. 2014 David William Brubeck All Rights Reserved davidbrubeck.com
This article is a reprint from the April 2014 Journal of the International Trombone Association. Thanks to the Journal and editor Diane Drexler.
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on BRASS DUOS AT ITG CONFERENCE 2015!  “Flow My Tears”, for Brass Duo, A Reprint from the ITA Journal
2 More Venetian/Italian Renaissance Brass Duets
Posted on December 17, 2024 by David Brubeck
We are pleased to present two more recordings from our initial sight-reading session of selection from Ten Italian Renaissance Duets published by Cherry Classics and recorded by Duo Brass featuring Morgen Low on trumpet and David Brubeck on bass trombone. These are important reference recordings for what appears to be the origins of a the most significant body of mixed-brass duo literature.
THE MYSTERY OF THE TOP PART The range for the top voice is curiously limited to an octave or less-(‘E’ to ‘E’; from the bottom line to the top space of the treble clef in ‘C’!)  Of the most common soprano instruments recorded in use at the Orthodox Christian Basilica of St. Mark’s in Venice or ‘La Serenissima’. the treble viol would have been nearly impossible due to it’s insufficient upper range.  The violin would have been most unlikely to have been written with a tessitura so restricted as we find of less than an octave; much less in that particular register! Similarly, with nearly a two-octave range, the soprano recorder would not be a likely candidate for melodies most often using less than half it’s range-(whether in it’s cylindrical or later conical iteration). The Renaissance soprano trombone was a fiction, and only assumed to exist and having been drawn from the imagination based on that assumption.
Cornett from www.Britanica.com
THE MYSTERY OF THE BOTTOM PART While the tenor cornett (or cornetto), was cited as something used for alto and tenor function, it’s range typically extends only to the ‘C’ an octave below middle ‘C’. That would leave a deficiency in range of an entire 5th for the bottom duo part, which frequently reflects a more bass-type function.  The bottom part is commonly written as low as the ‘F’ just below the bass clef staff.   In 6th position, this would be comfortably accessible by a tenor trombone and trombonist of the day.   here are no indications of notes lower than this ‘F’, so there is no reason to believe the instrument was bass trombone, in addition to the fact that the parts venture up to ‘G’ and perhaps even ‘A’ above middle ‘C’, which are almost completely unlikely on the Renaissance bass trombone or bass viol, while still within the reach of the Renaissance tenor trombone.
There does not seem to be a likelyhood that cello was employed, and had it been, one could have easily encountered pitches up to a fourth lower than present. The range present in these duos does find another mirror in the range of the tenor Viol, but the tone of a tenor viol would likely be insufficient to provide equal balance to even a violin, much less a cornetto.  Tenor Trombone seems to be the only likely instrument available with the correct range and musical presence for the bottom of the duo parts.
mersenne harmonie universelle 1636 trombone from www.wikepedia.org
In Vivaldi’s Venice, author Patrick Barbier cites a registry from St. Mark’s in 1708 AD that provides a first-hand account of the instrumentation available at that time: “Indicates the presence of 23 musicians engaged for life and divided as follows: 10 violins (including the father of Antonio Vivaldi), three small violas, one viola de braccia (a sort of alto), one violine (close to a double bass), three theorbos, one cornett, one oboe, two trumpets and one trombone.”
A hundred years earlier, the famous 1597 AD “Sonata piano e forte” by Giovanni Gabrieli, specified eight musicians: 6 trombones, 1 cornett/cornetto, and 1 viol. The piece was historic for its early written use of dynamics and specific instrumentation.  It features two choirs in antiphony. One comprised of cornetto and 3 trombones, the other was comprised of one viol and three trombones.
A CHRISTIAN OUTPOST                                                                                                                                           La Serenissima (or Venice), was founded by Christians who were shown the sparkling lights on its lagoon after intense prayer and near-starvation. Venice began its life as a city dedicated to God by its Christian founders.
The text of Psalm 117 is implied by these first words of one duo in Latin:
“Praise the Lord, all nations!
Extol him, all peoples!
2  For great is his steadfast love toward us,
and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever.
Praise the Lord!”
from esv.org
FEATURED DUO BRASS RECORDING: 6.  Omnes gentes
The accounts of the great musicality of Venice at the time included the commonplace singing of fishermen as they returned home to their wives who awaited them on the docks, and the tradition of the gondoliers singing together to train the younger members of their trade. Of great importance was the impressive series of musical orphanages set up throughout the city. The intense musicality of Venice at the time led to one visiting nobleman to remark in a report to his home and that he could assemble an orchestra from the beggars in La Serenissima (Venice), better than almost any one found in European courts.
The loving and at times erotifc metaphors found in the Bible in the Song of Solomon describe his wedding to his black African wife. God’s provision of the joy of love and sex in the context of marriage may seem incongruous next to other Biblical texts to some. In parallel fashion, the sacred plaza of St. Mark’s in the 1600’s embraced the near-constant joys of the carnivals of Venice. These carnivals ran almost constantly throughout the year and celebrated life and music. Interestingly, the carnivals of Venice became a deterrent to invaders, to whom they gave the impression that the city was too populous to invade-unaware that many of the throngs were fellow tourists.
Image of The Shulamite Girl depicted in Song of Solomon, from www.malevus.com
SONG OF SOLOMON
2 I am the rose of Sharon, and the lily of the valleys.
2 As the lily among thorns, so is my love among the daughters.
3 As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste.
4 He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love.
5 Stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples: for I am sick of love.
12 A garden inclosed is my sister, my spouse; a spring shut up, a fountain sealed.
15 A fountain of gardens, a well of living waters, and streams from Lebanon.
from www.biblegateway.com
FEATURED DUO BRASS RECORDING: 3.  Ego flos campi
The Pala d’Oro, of Basilica San Marco, is said to be more resplendent than Britain’s Crown Jewels and was spared from plunder by Napoleon because he suspected it a forgery!  Quite possibly due to a poorly heard translation or perhaps because it was thought too amazing to be real!   Image from walksoftly.com
Venice was really an ORTHODOX CHRISTIAN satellite of Constantinople, and not Catholic Rome. Equally, it might be argued by some, that Venice is as much a continuation of the ANCIENT World established by Rome and carried by CONSTANTINOPLE into what Europeans considered “The Renaissance”.
Indeed, some have argued that the fall of Constantinople in 1453 AD was THE reason for the Western European Renaissance, as the Greek Scholars fled the Constantinople, which had been known for more than a MILLENIUM as the eye of the world, to new patrons and protectors in Europe.
CHECK OUT THE FIRST DUOS FROM THIS COLLECTION RECORDED HERE:
Did We Miss Something? No. 3.                              Renaissance Duets                                                                                   THESE REWRITE EARLY BRASS DUO HISTORY
c. 2024 David William Brubeck All rights Reserved
image courtesy of www.mattathimeinthe world.com
COPYRIGHT NOTICE/DISCLAIMER
FAIR USE:
COPYRIGHT DISCLAIMER UNDER SECTION 107 OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT 1976, ALLOWANCE IS MADE FOR “FAIR USE” FOR PURPOSES SUCH AS CRITICISM, COMMENT, NEWS REPORTING, TEACHING, SCHOLARSHIP AND RESEARCH.FAIR USE IS PERMITTED BY COPYRIGHT STATUTE THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE BE INFRINGING.  NON-PROFIT, EDUCATIONAL OR PERSONAL USE TIPS THE BALANCE IN FAIVOR OF FAIR USE
PS
Is it EVEN POSSIBLE that  trombones could REALLY be the founding instrument of the symphony orchestra?  While it is true that trombones comprised nearly 70% of what may arguably be the first symphonic composition-the “Sonata piano e forte”, perhaps a bit more investigation is warranted.
Please consider spending fifteen minutes to hear how full the sound of just three trombones can be in the YouTube video of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra Trombone trio below.  They are quite nearly the equivalent of three ENTIRE string sections: viola, ‘cello and bass.
All that is needed is a soprano instrument like the cornet or trumpet, violin or viol…..or two! (Okay, or a soprano recorder!)
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on 2 More Venetian/Italian Renaissance Brass Duets
George Roberts Bass Trombone Solo Transcription Reprise, from “You’re the Top!”, New Masthead & Christmas Wishes!
Posted on December 16, 2024 by David Brubeck
Dear friends and music lovers,
Please note the new masthead for the site!
This is cropping  from a watercolor painting by Barbie Brubeck.  Please be on the lookout for more of her work in the days to come.
My Sabbatical is nearly over.
Please accept apologies for any inconvenience that the lack of regular updates to the website may have caused you. I hope that you enjoy this new masthead, new recordings from Venice and another chance at this great transcription of the legendary George Roberts!
Wishing you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
c. 2024 David William, Brubeck All Rights Reserved
c. 2024 David William Brubeck All Rights Reserved
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on George Roberts Bass Trombone Solo Transcription Reprise, from “You’re the Top!”, New Masthead & Christmas Wishes!
NEW AUDIO ADDED Chilidog #11, “Lefthand”, for Solo Guitar
Posted on July 18, 2024 by David Brubeck
Who is the greatest left-handed guitarist? Jimi Hendrix? Paul McCartney, Albert King, Omar Rodriguez-Lopez, or Dick Dale? Someone else? Here is somehting beautiful for your left hand!
Photos courtesy of Guitar world and Iconguitar.com
Posted in Uncategorized
|
Comments Off on NEW AUDIO ADDED Chilidog #11, “Lefthand”, for Solo Guitar
← Older posts
Recent Posts
DUO BRUO!  Duo Brubeck at Josefina’s Coffee House, featuring NEW Guitarist and Derek Sanguino Saturday,  RECHEDULED TO 5 April 2025 11 am to 1 pm
Is The World Anxiously Awaiting The Return Of…
The Gig-Target
Hmmmm.  DUO BREWBECK?, At Filomena’s Coffee House in Pembroke Pines? Jazz Brunch-Yummmm!  Let’s Get Roasted!  SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1st 2025 11:00 am to 1:00 pm.
DUO BRUBECK LIVE!  Friday 24 January 2025 7:00 pm
3 More Venetian Italian Renaissance Duets (Third Recorded Collection by DUO BRASS)
Dedicated to Chuck Connors, Bass Trombonist with Duke Ellington from 1961, Stereogram (Yet Un-Numbered)
Badiniere for Bass trombone and Piccolo Trumpet
BRASS DUOS AT ITG CONFERENCE 2015!  “Flow My Tears”, for Brass Duo, A Reprint from the ITA Journal
2 More Venetian/Italian Renaissance Brass Duets
Recent CommentsArchives
February 2025
January 2025
December 2024
July 2024
June 2024
May 2024
April 2024
March 2024
February 2024
January 2024
December 2023
November 2023
October 2023
September 2023
August 2023
July 2023
May 2023
March 2023
November 2022
October 2022
August 2022
July 2022
January 2022
December 2021
November 2021
October 2021
September 2021
May 2021
March 2021
February 2021
January 2021
November 2020
August 2020
July 2020
June 2020
May 2020
April 2020
March 2020
February 2020
January 2020
December 2019
September 2019
August 2019
July 2019
June 2019
May 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
August 2018
July 2018
March 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
December 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
February 2011
January 2011
November 2010
October 2010
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2007
August 2007
David Brubeck Bass Trombone Soloist
Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org
davidbrubeck.com
Proudly powered by WordPress.