Efrim Manuel Menuck of GY!BE quits music to preach the High Gospel in May (you got a better joke?) | Music News | Releases | Tiny Mix Tapes
TMT is looking for film writers
Music ReviewsEUREKA!
NewsfeedNews
Chocolate Grinder ♫ ♪
FeaturesSeries
BlogsCerberus
DeLorean
Live Blog
EtcFilm
Mix Tapes
Comics
TMT IS ON HIATUS
Tiny Mix Tapes
Latest
News
RIP: David Riley, bassist for Big Black
News
Macintosh Plus announces new album, shares 12-minute preview called “Sick & Panic (First Mix)”
Features
2010s: Favorite 100 Music Releases of the Decade
Features
2010s: Favorite 100 Songs of the Decade
TMT Comics
Goodbye Forever
Chocolate Grinder
LISTEN: Andy Koufax
- “Practice Makes Worseness”
Tiny Mix Tapes
https://www.tinymixtapes.com/sites/all/themes/tmt7/img/tmt-logo_2015.png
Efrim Manuel Menuck of GY!BE quits music to preach the High Gospel in May (you got a better joke?)
Efrim Manuel Menuck of GY!BE quits music to preach the High Gospel in May (you got a better joke?)
News
By
Harold Shueberg
https://www.tinymixtapes.com//writer/harold+shueberg
·
April 13, 2011					2011-04-13T15:15:26-04:00
Tweet
Seemingly, we sleazy American folk have spread our strategic marketing grime all the way to our passive and amicable neighbors to the North. The only difference being that when an American gets their name on the press’s tongue they utilize it by coming out with a line of alcohol-infused energy drinks, while a Canadian utilizes their glory by creating a personal and artistically relevant piece of music. That, precisely, is what Godspeed You! Black Emperor member Efrim Manuel Manuck has and is doing with his upcoming debut solo album, hot on the heels of GY!BE’s epic and drastically unexpected reunion tour of the states. Go figure.
Efrim Manuel Manuck Plays “High Gospel” will be released on May 24 courtesy of the “all things Efrim” label Constellation. The record apparently addresses some happenings in the GY!BE member and A Silver Mt. Zion frontman’s present life, such as the death of close friend and phenomenally talented musician Vic Chesnutt (sigh) and the birth of his lil baby. Things you all can relate to, even if you’re not Canadian. Listen to two tracks from the album at the Chocolate Grinder.
In line with all Menuck-related releases, the physical record is elegantly ornamented with a 12x12 double-sided color insert inside a 24 pt. cardboard jacket with a matte UV varnish — and that’s just the LP version. The CD comes housed in a 100% recycled jacket, also with a UV varnish, and both the LP and CD come with a 9”x4.5” lyric sheet. Plus, did you see the cover of the album up top? Damnnnnn that shit is cute.
Plays “High Gospel” tracklisting:
01. Our Lady of Parc Extension and Her Munificent Sorrows
02. A 12-pt. Program for Keep on Keepin’ On
03. August Four, Year-of-Our-Lord Blues
04. Heavy Calls & Hospital Blues
05. Heaven’s Engine Is a Dusty Ol’ Bellows
06. Kaddish for Chesnutt
07. Chickadees’ Roar pt. 2
08. I Am No Longer a Motherless Child
• Constellation: http://cstrecords.com
Tweet
Follow
Even if you don’t really like us, us on Facebook!
Most Read
Newsfeed
1
Foot Village shares details of new album on Northern Spy
2
John Peel’s record collection soon to be made available online as virtual museum… those poor BBC interns
3
LISTEN: XXX
- Love Potion
4
clipping. release a 24-hour song, acapella tracks, and a remix album
5
RIP: David Riley, bassist for Big Black
Etc.
Music Reviews
1
Sun Araw
THE SADDLE OF THE INCREATE
2
Skepta
Konnichiwa
3
Kesha
Rainbow
4
Kara-Lis Coverdale
Grafts
5
Nmesh
Pharma
© 2001–2025 Tiny Mix Tapes
ABOUT   ·
CONTACT   ·
OPENINGS   ·
SUBSCRIBE   ·
ADVERTISE
“Yeah, we sell out…every seat in the house, every time we play.” - Metallica