Montclair Village, Oakland, California
Montclair Village, Oakland, California
Also like a little village.  Another Top Dog, high density of real estate offices, restaurants, shopping. Be sure to have breakfast or lunch at the cafe and admire the finely detailed brass models of the Union Pacific 4-8-8-4 Big Boy steam engine.  Check out the model train running on the ceiling.  I think the address is 6120 Medau Place.
Give us a call -  we'll treat you like friends!
We'll find you a great place to live by making sure that you don't miss any homes which meet your needs! We specialize in helping nice folks buy and sell pleasant homes in the East Bay's most comfortable neighborhoods, and we offer FREE    referrals  to other outstanding Realtors in the United States.
Montclair Village, Oakland
Directions, Mapping, Navigating & Feedback
Map It With Mapquest! The  best route  to get there from your home, and an interactive map of any street address.
Take advantage of our FREE Buyer Broker Services when you're ready to buy your next home in the East Bay!  Send Email or call 800/887-6668 or 510/526-6668!
Visit other great East Bay Neighborhoods
Return to  Serkes Real Estate Search Engine http://www.home-buy-sell.com
Montclair Village
Noah's Montclair
Directions, Mapping, Navigating & Feedback
Mapping! The  best route  to get there from your home, and an interactive map of any street address.
Ira & Carol..show me how I can  buy a home in this pleasant neighborhood!  Send Email or call 800/887-6668 or 510/526-6668!
Return to the Serkes Neighborhood Site
Return to  Serkes Real Estate Search Engine http://www.home-buy-sell.com
We Value Your Business And Appreciate Your Referrals
Almost all our clients have been referred to us by their friends, family, local neighborhood Realtor, or found us on the Internet.  One of the nice benefits of a referral based business is that we get to work with people who are motivated, financially qualified, highly educated, decisive, pleasant, and have interesting backgrounds (one client won a Gold medal at the Olympics).  What's particularly rewarding is how many of our buyers and sellers have become friends.
If you're planning to buy or sell a home, we'd appreciate the opportunity to show you how you'll benefit from our services.  And, if you know a friend, neighbor, or family member who  is buying, selling, or relocating anywhere in the United States, we'll be happy to check our extensive database of highly qualified Realtors and   refer    you to a great local Realtor.
Ira & Carol Serkes & Nolo Press'  "How To Buy A House In California"
Ira Serkes, GRI, CRS - Certified Residential Specialist,  co-author of Nolo Press' "How To Buy A House In California," and Carol Serkes, GRI, CRS, are Realtors with the RE/MAX  Real Estate  network.
Page design, text, and photos by Ira Serkes Copyright 1997
Maps by Vicinity Corp Copyright 1996 and Etak, Inc. Copyright 1984-1986