CADDELL, CLIFTON EBNER, 84, native of Pineville, passed away February 18th, North
Vernon, IN.He was the son of the late Julia (Ebner) and George Caddell.  He attended Pineville
school until the Caddell's
moved in 1934 to Southern Indiana.  He attended school at Seymour, In., he served in the Army during W W II then he
attended Indiana University.  He had two brothers which preceded him in death, Dan and
Julian.He is survived by his wife Jennie, a sister, Cora, (Mrs. Carl Graesser) Trenton,
Il., three sons, George, Westport, In., Joe, Dupont, In., and David, Madison, In.    Several nieces and nephews, plus three
grandchildren.He was a farmer, dairy farmer, interested in genealogy and history.
Several stories appeared in the Pineville Sun.  History of Middlesboro and Cumberland Gap, etc.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, March 6, 2003
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum Date: Thursday, October 07, 2004 3:19 PM
Caldwell, Archie
-age 73, a resident of Murfreesboro, Tennessee passed away Saturday
March 20, 2004 at the St. Thomas Hospital in Nashville, Tennessee.  He was born
on May 26, 1934 in Stoney Fork, Kentucky the son to the late Thea Caldwell and
the late Virgie Hoskins Caldwell.  Besides his parents he was preceded in death
by his son Steve Caldwell and a sister Cordie Bryant.  He served more than 30
years with the U.S. Air Force.  He was of the Protestant Faith.  He was a member
of the Masonic Lodge in Murfreesboro Tennessee.  Left to mourn his passing are
the following members of his family: His wife of 52 years of marriage: Mary Lou
Caldwell a resident of Murfreesboro, Tennessee, his sons: Gregory Caldwell,
Murfreesboro, Tennessee, and Marck Caldwell and wife Ingraid of Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.  Three grandchildren: Kaila Caldwell, Katie Parsons, Zach Parsons.
Sister-in-law: Ruth Ann Merrill, Murfreesboro, Tennessee.  Brother-in-law: James
E. Hodges and wife Clara, Ashland, Kentucky.  A host of other friends and
relatives also survive.Funeral services for Archie Caldwell were conducted
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 at the Creech-Durham Funeral Home Chapel with Reverend
Jeff Greene and James E. Hodges officiating.  Music was by Mickey Wilder.
Burial followed in the Pinelawn Memorial Gardens on Laurel Hill.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, March 25, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CALDWELL, ARNOLD, 79, of Helton, KY, died on Thursday, December 5, 2002 at his home.  He was born in Phillips Fork, KY on September 20,
1923 to Joseph and Elizabeth Brock Caldwell.  He was a
member of the Dry Fork Pentecostal Church and had been a coal miner. He was preceded in death by his parents, sisters, Susan Simpson,
Betty Saylor, Misty Caldwell and Zelphia Caldwell and brothers, John,
Hardy, Elijah, Wright, Saylor, Everett and Millard Caldwell. Survivors include his wife, Bessie Short Caldwell, children,
Michael and Sandra Caldwell, Charles Caldwell, Phyllis and Sonny Pate and Diane and Dan
Johnson; grandchildren, Juston Pate, Lindsey Johnson, Chad Caldwell, Adam Johnson and Kristen Caldwell; sister, Serina Short,
brothers, Park and Ed Caldwell; mother-in-law, Cordelia Short and a host of nieces
and nephews.    Services will be at 12 Noon Sunday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home with Rev. Cammie Caldwell, Rev. Roscoe Asher and Rev. Joe Hoskins. Music will be by Joe Hoskins and Phillip Pate.  Burial
will be in the Honey Branch Cemetery in Middlefork.  Nephews will serve as pallbearers.    Arnett & Steele Funeal Home, Pineville, was honored to serve the
Caldwell Family.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, December 12, 2002
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum Date: Sunday, February 02, 2003 3:42 PM
CALDWELL, BARBARA JEAN McCOY - 38, of Pineville, passed away on
Tuesday, September 20, 2005 at the Pineville Community Hospital. She was born in
Pineville on November 23, 1966 the daughter of John Richard and Wanda Green
McCoy. She believed in the Pentecostal Faith and had been a homemaker. Survivors
include her husband of 2 years, Marvin Caldwell of Pineville; sons, Michael
Anthony Rutherford and Joshua Shaun Rutherford both of Dorton Branch, step-son,
Justin Floyd Caldwell of Ferndale; brother, John Richard McCoy, Jr. and Denise
Knuckles of Frakes; sister, Tonya Renee McCoy and Steve Simpson of Frakes; niece
and nephews, Angel Faye, Steve Richard, Jr. and Matthew Shawn Simpson, Joshua
Overton, Jonathan Patterson and Dylan Knuckles; aunts and uncles, Margaret and
Albert Shepherd of South Lebanon, OH, Barbara and Virgil Rose of Lexington,
Ollie Jean and Clarence Hall of Pineville, Ray and Tina McCoy of Pineville and
Donald and Judy Allex of Xenia, OH; and special friend, Lisa Warren and a host
of other relatives and friends. Services were at 2 PM Friday at the Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home with Rev. Donald King. Music was provided by Joelene and
Elmer Derossett and Lisa Warren. Burial was  in the Wallsend Cemetery,
Pineville. Pallbearers were family and friends. Honorary Pallbearers were Mike
Rutherford and Clarence Hall. The family  received friends from 6 until 9 PM
Thursday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, January 29, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Caldwell, Elihue -72,
of Kettle Island, passed away on Thurdsay, September 30, 2004 at the Middlesboro
Appalachian Regional Hospital. He was born in Punkin Knob on August 16, 1932 the
son of the late Joe and Elizabeth Forster Caldwell. He was a member of the
Straight Creek Pentecost Holiness Church and was a retired logger of 57 years.
He was a very loving and kind man who will be sadly missed by his wife of 22
years, Virginia Rose Johnson Caldwell, and a host of children, grandchildren,
great-grandchildren, sisters, brothers, nieces, nephews and friends who loved
him very much. Services will be at 12 Noon Sunday at the Straight Creek
Pentecost Holiness Church with Rev. George Neal and Rev. David Asher. Burial
will be in the Collett Cemetery at Mill Creek. Pallbearers will be family and
friends. The family will receive friends all day Saturday at the Church.
Arrangements by Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, October 7, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Caldwell, Jerome
-age 90, a resident of Stoney, KY passed away January 4, 2006 at the
Middlesboro ARH Hospital, Middlesboro, KY.  He was born on May 14, 1915 in
Stoney Fork, KY., the son to the late Elihue Caldwell and the late Chinia Ellen
Roark Caldwell.  He had been a logger.  Besides his parents he was also preceded
in death by his first wife and mother of ten of his children, Maudie Brock
Caldwell; and his second wife, Lucy Brock Caldwell; his daughters, Judy Bailey
and Elvie Helton; his sons, David and Jarvis Caldwell; sisters Judy Brock and
Lillie Cox; brothers Dewey Caldwell and Joe Caldwell and Floyd Caldwell;
granddaughter, Sherry Caldwell; and grandson, Paul Cox; daughter-in-law, Marie
Caldwell; sons-in-law, Joe Blevins and Arnold Saylor.  Left to mourn his passing
are the following members of his family: Children: Sonny and Geraldine Caldwell,
Arjay, KY; Floyd & Wanda Caldwell, Fields, KY; Lawrence and Shirley Caldwell,
Stoney Fork, KY; J.C. Caldwell, Stoney Fork, KY; Dewey and Bobbie Helton, Stoney
Fork, KY; Jimmy and Dianna Caldwell, Stoney Fork, KY; Baxter and Lisa Caldwell,
Stoney Fork, KY; Jerome and Tina Caldwell, Stoney Fork, KY; Carl and Pat
Caldwell, Kettle Island, KY; Arthur and Debbie Caldwell, New Tazwell, TN; Ralph
and Teresa Caldwell, Arjay, KY; Alliefar and Red Jones, Fort Wayne, IN; Ada and
Denver Helton, Indianapolis, IN; Irene and Glen Wright, Stoney Fork, KY;
Christine Blevins, Stoney Fork, KY; Son-in-law Boone Bailey, Arjay, KY; 2
sisters, Sarah Hoskins, Stoney Fork, KY and Anna Brock, Pineville, KY; 1 brother
, Josh Caldwell, Arjay, KY; 70 grandchildren, 121 great-grandchildren; 25
great-great grandchildren; and a host of other friends, relatives and loved
ones.  Special thanks to Home Health, Dr. Brooks and Dr. Satish.Services were at
11:00 a.m. Sunday, January 8, 2005 at the Creech-Durham Funeral Home in
Pineville, KY with Rev. Herstel Belcher, Rev. Tony Caldwell and Rev. Ernie
Asher.  Interment was in the Caldwell-Brock Cemetery, Stoney Fork, KY.
Pallbearers were the grandsons.  Honorary pallbearers were Terry Caldwell and
Rev. Thea O. Carter and Wm. Baker.  Visitation was 6-9 Friday and 9:00 a.m. till
9:00 p.m. Saturday at the Creech-Durham Funeral Home which wee in charge of
arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, January 12, 2006
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CALDWELL, MAUDIE BROCK, age 70, a lifelong resident of Stoney Fork, KY., passed away Monday, February 15, 1988 at the Pineville Community
Hospital. She was born October 2, 1917 in Harlan Co.,
KY., the daughter of the late Felix Brock and Sarah Hensley Brock.  She was a member of Judy
Brock’s Pentecostal Church. She is survived by: her step-mother, Mrs. Judy
Brock, Stoney Fork, KY; five sons,
Sonny Caldwell, Arjay, KY., Floyd Caldwell, Fields, KY., J.C.Caldwell, Lepeer, MI., Lawrence Caldwell and Jarvis Caldwell, both of
Stoney Fork; four daughters, Mrs. Judy Bailey, Mayville, MI., Mrs. Allie
Fair Saylor, Ft. Wayne, IN., Mrs. Ada Mae Helton and Mrs. Lillie Helton, both of Indianapolis, IN; four brothers, Felix Brock, Jr., C.B. Brock,
Melburn Brock, all of Stoney Fork, James Brock, Fields, KY;
three sisters, Miss Lillie Mae Brock, Annie Helton and Sarah Helton, all of Stoney Fork; 34 grandchildren and 41 great grandchildren.  Services for Mrs. Caldwell were at 1 p.m. Tuesday, February 16, 1988
at Kale Saylor’s Pentecostal Church, Stoney Fork, KY., with Revs. Kale Saylor and Wilkie Saylor.  Burial  followed in the Caldwell Family
Cemetery, Stoney Fork. The pallbearers who served were friends of the
family.  Durham Funeral Home was in charge of arrangements.
The Sun The Pineville Sun, Thursday,  February 18, 1988
Typed by Mary J. (Eldridge) Harris
CALDWELL, MEGAN RENNEE, infant, age seven months, passed away Thursday, April 23, 1987
at the University of Tennessee Hospital, Knoxville, Tenn. She was born September
18, 1986 in Knoxville,
Tenn., the daughter of Lonnie CALDWELL and Darlene POWELL CALDWELL. She is survived by: her father, Lonnie CALDWELL, Arjay, Ky.; her
mother, Mrs. Darlene POWELL CALDWELL, Arjay;
her grandparents, Harold and Lucy POWELL, Flint, Mich.; Mrs. Nancy CALDWELL, Roark, Ky.; brothers and sisters:
Daniel Lynn CALDWELL, Arjay; Lonnie Jeffrey CALDWELL and Coleman Dean
CALDWELL, both of Warbranch,, Ky.; Sherrie Lynn CALDWELL, Flint, Mich.; several aunts,
uncles, and cousins. Graveside services were at 11 a.m. Saturday, April 25, 1987
at the Brummett Cemetery,
Simms Fork, Ky., with Rev. Eldon SHICKLES.  Friends of the family served as pallbearers. Durham Funeral Home was in charge of
arrangements.
The Sun-Courier, Thursday, April 30, 1987
CALDWELL, MURPHY, a resident of Pineville, Ky., died Wednesday, August 1,
1990 in Pineville, Ky.  He was born February 8, 1938 in Bledsoe, Kentucky, the son of the late Columbus
CALDWELL and
Perlina Ray (RAY?) CALDWELL.  He believed in the Baptist faith. Survivors include his wife, Mrs. Ola CALDWELL, Pineville, Ky.; three sons, Tom
CALDWELL, stationed in Germany, Richard CALDWELL, Middlesboro, Ky., and Guy CALDWELL, Pineville, Ky.; two daughters, Ms. Ola CALDWELL, and Ms. Jennifer
CALDWELL, both of Pineville, one sister,  Mrs. Dorothy GAMBREL, Pineville. Services were
conducted Sunday, August 5, 1990 at 2 p.m. at the Durham Funeral Home Chapel with the Rev. Jon AMSPAUGH officiating.  Burial was in the Coldiron
Cemetery at Bledsoe, Ky.  Pallbearers were family and
friends. Durham Funeral Home was in charge of arrangements.
The Sun-Courier, Thursday, August 9, 1990
Typed by: C. Binkley
Caldwell, Nettie Faye Harris -BLEDSOE - 56, passed away Saturday,
Sept. 10, 2005 at her home in Salt Trace. She was born on Jan. 27, 1949, the
daughter of the late Harold and Mattie Dowdy Harris. She was a member of
Ferndale Baptist Chinch and had been an associate with Wal-Mart in Middlesboro
until her retirement in July 2005. Survivors include her husband of 40 years,
Kendrick Caldwell, Bledsoe; sons, Kenrick and Linda Caldwell, and Steven and
Lisa Caldwell; grandchildren, Faye Caldwell, Melissa Caldwell, Kellie Caldwell,
and Kenrick Joe Caldwell Jr.; and a host of nieces, nephews, other relatives and
friends. Services will be at 11 a.m. Tuesday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home
with the Rev. Clarence Mason and the Rev. Thomas Mason presiding. Music will be
by the Ferndale Baptist and Solid Rock Church choirs. Burial will be in Salt
Trace Cemetery at Bledsoe. Pallbearers will be Paul Bailey, Tom Wilson, Johnny
Crisp, James Dunn, Wayne Caldwell and Chad Dunn. The family will receive friends
from 6-9 p.m. Monday at Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville which is in
charge of arrangements.
Source:   Middlesboro Daily News
CALDWELL, SARAH GARLAND, age 88, a resident of Dorton Branch, KY, died Thursday,
April 28 (1988) at the Harlan Appalachian Regional Hospital, Harlan, KY. She was
born January 29, 1900 at
Andersonville, Tenn., the daughter of the late Ruth RUTHERFORD and Lizzi Ridner RUTHERFORD.  She was a member of the Bethlehem
Baptist Church. She is survived by one son, Vernon GARLAND, Dorton
Branch, KY; one brother, Oliver RUTHERFORD, Brooksville, Fla.; four grandchildren and many
great-grandchildren. Services for Mrs. COLLETT were at 2 pm Saturday, April 30, 1988 at the Durham Funeral
Home Chapel with Rev. James KELLY officiating.  Burial followed in the Pineville Memorial Cemetery, Pineville, KY.  Those who
served as pallbearers were friends of the family. Durham Funeral Home in charge
of arrangements.
The Sun-Courier, Thursday, May 5, 1988
~ typed by Becky Redd Casagrande ~
CALVERT, AUDREY 'OPAL' LEE, 83, of Oak Ridge, TN passed away peacefully Wednesday, August 14, 2002 at Methodist Medical Center in
Oak Ridge.  She was a long time member of First Baptist Church
in Oak Ridge where she was a member of the Philathea Sunday School Class and had served as a Cradle Roll Leader.  She had served as a Cub Scout
Leader when her children were in elementary school.She was
born and grew up in Pineville, KY, where she graduated from Pineville High School in 1937.  She met and married Oney Calvert in
Pineville in 1938.  One of her fondest joys was attending the annual Mountain Laurel
Festival there each year at Pine Mountain State Park. The Calvert's would have celebrated their 65th wedding anniversary in
September.    In addition to her husband, she is survived by four sons and a daughter: O.
Lynn Calvert and his wife Eileen of Oak Ridge, Karen Sue Baker and her husband Michael of St. Louis, MO, M. Douglas Calvert,
Gary L. Calvert and his wife Linda and John G. Calvert and his wife Tammy, all of
Oak Ridge, 12 grandchildren and 10 great grandchildren; sister, Emma Jean Wright of Oak Ridge and her brothers James Gilbert of
Cincinnati, OH and Michael Gibert of New Albany, IN.  She was preceded
in death by her parents Roland and Cora Hayslett Gilbert of Pineville and brothers Ted Gilbert and Ralph Gilbert and sisters Lorene Mink and
Madeline Mills.  The funeral services were held Saturday, August 17,
2002 at First Baptist Church of Oak Ridge with Dr. Larry Dipboye delivering the service.  Burial followed at Anderson Memorial
Gardens.  Those wishing to make contributations in lieu of flowers may send them in
her name to the Agape Center at First Baptist Church, 1101 Oak Ridge Turnpike, Oak
Ridge, TN 37830 and/or to the American Lung Asdociation of TN, 212 S. Peters Rd., Suite #106, Knoxville, TN
37923.
The family received friends on Friday, August 16, at Weatherford Mortuary and again on Saturday at the First Baptist Church
of Oak Ridge.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, August 22, 2002
Submitted by:  Janet Wolfrum Date: Saturday, October 05, 2002 5:17 PM
CAMPBELL, AGNES -Agnes Campbell, 89, of Pineville,
passed away on Monday, May 2, 2005 at the Pineville Community Hospital.  She was
born January 8, 1916 at Tinsley, KY to John and Laura Rickett Tinsley.She was a
member of the Riverside Baptist Church where she taught Sunday School for many
years and later a member of the West Pineville Baptist Church where she was very
active in WMU.Preceding her in death were her parents, her husband, Alex
Campbell, son, Bob R. Campbell, son-in-law, Edward Epley, brothers, Elmer and
Paul Tinsley.Survivors include her daughters, Myra C. Epley, Sherrie C. Howard
and husband Jasper B. Howard; Alma C. Walton and Kaye C. Howard, sons. Bill G.
Campbell and Jerry B. Campbell, grandchildren, David Epley, Pam Epley Smith,
Sherry E. and Pete Gulley, Lisa and Rance Clark, Mark Campbell, Matthew
Campbell, Jennifer and Kevin Sliwinski, John Campbell and Jason Walton.Services
were Thursday, May 5, at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home.  Burial was in the
Pineville Memorial Cemetery, Pineville.  Pallbearers were her grandsons and
great-grandsons.The Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville, was in charge of
arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, May 19, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CAMPBELL, FRED ARCHIE, 64, passed away Saturday, Sept. 29, 2001, at Park West Hospital, Knoxville, Tenn. He was born June 8, 1937, in Middlesboro, a son of the late William Campbell and Mima
Dollarhide. He had been a resident of this area all of his life, and he believed in the Baptist faith. He was a retired iron worker and jewelry repairman.   In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by his first
wife, Eldean Campbell; two brothers, Frank and Bill Campbell; and two sisters, Opal Allen and Evelyn Johnston. Survivors include his wife, Barbara Campbell; seven children, Charles Campbell of Mary Ann, Fla.,
Russell Campbell of Columbus, Ga., Michael Roy Campbell of Columbus, Ga., Katrina Harris, Havelock, N.C., Michael Cosby, Speedwell, Tenn., Kay Cosby, Knoxville, Tenn., and Tammy Venable of Middlesboro;
10 grandchildren and one great-granddaughter; two sisters, Betty Lambdin, Harrogate, Tenn., and Bonnie Mayes, Middlesboro; and two brothers, George Campbell, Louisville, Ky., and James Campbell of
Middles-
boro.   Funeral services will be at 4 p.m. Tuesday with Clint Lambdin presiding. Burial will be in Harrogate Cemetery. Military honors will be presented at the graveside by American Legion Dewey Guy Post #14 of
Middlesboro. Visitation is from 2-4 p.m. Tuesday at Shumate Funeral Home, which is in charge of arrangements.
CAMPBELL, LOYD B, 56, of Calloway, Ky., died Friday, May 22 in the Pineville
Community Hospital. He was born June 9, 1930 in Calloway, the son of the late J.
W. CAMPBELL and Stella BOWEN
CAMPBELL. He was employed by the Bell County Vocational School for 11 years.  He was a member of the Calloway Masonic Lodge
and a disabled veteran. Survivors are his wife, Alma Joyce CAMPBELL;
one son and daughter-in-law, Ernie and Tina JOHNSON CAMPBELL, Calloway; and two brothers,
Norman CAMPBELL, Calloway, and James CAMPBELL, Cincinnati, Ohio. Services were at 3 p.m. Monday
at the Arnett Funeral Home Chapel with the Rev. Charles MOSLEY. Burial was in the Mathel Cemetery. Pallbearers were friends of the family.
Arnett Funeral Home was in charge of arrangements.
May 28, 1987
Typed by: Connie Binkley lnickel@worcnet.gen.oh.us
CAMPBELL, PAUL, 65, of Harrogate, Tn, passed away Thursday, Nov. 21, 2002, at Middlesboro Appalachian Regional Hospital.
Arrangements are incomplete. Further information may be obtained by
calling the Creech Funeral Home 24-hour obituary line at 248-4710 or by calling
248-4700
Source:  ? newspaper dated 11/22
CARDWELL, ANNA LEE  - age 89, of Knoxville, passed away Thursday, October 19,
2000 at Baptist Hospital. She was born in Pineville, Kentucky. She was a member of First Baptist Church in Pineville, KY.
She is survived by her loving family; daughter and son-in-law, Shirley and Jim Hunter of Knoxville;
grandchildren, Kathy Bowling of Knoxville, Kim Wilkshire of Fort Worth, Texas; great-grandchildren, Kristi Bartlett
and Jimmy Bowling; great-great-granddaughter, Megan Bartlett. The family will receive friends
Sunday, October 22, from 6-8 p.m. at Highland Memorial Funeral Home with services following at 8:00 p.m. in the
funeral home chapel. Rev. Mike Vincent will be officiating. Interment will be at 11:00 a.m. Monday, October 23 at
Highland Memorial Cemetery. Family and friends will meet at the cemetery entrance at 10:45 a.m.
In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to The Riverdale Baptist Church Family Center, 7124 Thorngrove Pike, Knoxville, TN
37914. Highland Memorial Funeral Home in charge of arrangements. 588-0567.
Source:   The Knoxville News Sentinel 21 Oct 2000
Submitted by Neal Byrge  Date: Saturday, October 21, 2000 7:51 AM
CARMACK, EDWARD RANDALL -79, of Green Briar, passed
away on Sunday, July 18, 2004 at his home.  He was born in Davisburg, KY on
January 22, 1925, the son of the late Henry and Birdie Brackett Carmack.  He was
a believer in the Baptist Faith and was in logging, sawmill, and timber
industry.  In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by a son, Vernon
Carmack, brothers, Beacher and Fred Carmack, Carlos Moore and sisters Hazel York
and Ruth Jones. Survivors include his wife, Minnie Collins Carmack of Pineville,
children, Oakley and Pauline Carmack of Pineville and Janice and Joseph Hoh,
Alexandria, KY; granddaughter, Amanda Ruby Carmack of Pineville; and
sister-in-law Augustine Carmack of Pineville and a host of nieces, nephews,
relatives, and friends. Services were Tuesday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home with Rev. Paul Gibson and Rev. Bill Helton.  Music by the Gibson Family.
Burial was in the Tadd Goodin Cemetery, Green Briar.  Pallbearers were family
and friends.  Arrangements were by Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, July 22, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CARMACK, JERRY WAYNE -30, of Pineville, passed away
on Thursday, January 15, 2004 at the Mary Chiles Hospital in Mount Sterling.  He
was born in Middlesboro on October 28, 1973 a son of Wanda Sue Rosenbalm Asher
and Otis J. Carmack Survivors include his mother, Wanda Sue Asher, Father, Otis
J. Carmack, twin brother, Terry Wayne Carmack, brother, James Carmack and wife
Trish, nephews, Torin Taylor, |Trenton Brice and Peyton James Carmack,
grandmothers, Pauline Rosenbalm  and Doshia Carmack; aunts Joyce and Mary
Carmack, uncles, Darrell, Donnie, Kenny and Jimmy Rosenbalm and Danny
Carmack
and a host of cousins.Services were Sunday at the Church of God Prophesy with
Rev. Allen Lord.  Burial was at Pinelawn Memorial Gardens.  Pallbearers were
Gary and Larry Gray, Buddy Nelson,
Eddie McGeorge, Douglas Laws and Clifford
Dozier.The Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville, was honored to serve the
Carmack Family.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, January 22, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CARMACK, RUTH JANE, 75 of Middlesboro, passed away Saturday, March
2, 2002, at Pineville Community Hospital. Born May 21, 1926, she was a lifelong resident of Middlesboro, and was a daughter of
t
he late Huston Carmack and Alice Wilson Carmack. She believed in the Holiness faith. In addition to her parents, she was preceded in
death by three brothers, John, George, and Fred Carmack; and husband, Alonzo
Rains. Survivors include her daughters, Sarah L. Partin, Harrogate, Tenn., and Sue Farrell, Middlesboro; son, James
Otis Rains, Middlesboro; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren; two sisters, China
Carmack, and Sarah Lee Carmack; and a special grandson, George Partin. Funeral services will be
conducted at 2 p.m. Tuesday at Shumate Funeral Home with the Rev. Woodrow Gilbert presiding. Music will be
provided by Alva Cunningham. Burial will be in Green Hills Memorial Gardens. Honorary
pallbearers will be the staff at Britthaven Nursing Home and the third floor staff at Pineville Community Hospital. Visitation is
from 6-9 p.m. today at Shumate Funeral Home, which is in charge of arrangements.
Middlesboro Daily News 3/4/2002
CARMACK, VERNON, 52, of Greenbriar, passed away Friday, Nov. 16,
2001, at his home. He was born March 3, 1949, a son of Edward Randall and Minnie Collins Carmack. He believed in the Baptist
faith. Survivors include his parents, Edward Randall and Minnie Collins Carmack; brother Oakley (Pauline) Carmack, Pineville;
sister, Janice (Joseph) Hoh, Alexandria, Ky.; niece, Amanda Ruby Carmack, Pineville;
aunts, Evelyn Hickey, Houston, Texas, and Gracie Brooks, Milford, Ohio; uncles, John Collins, Williamston, S.C.,
Bobby Joe Collins, Milford, Ohio, and Charlie J. Collins, Tampa, Fla.; and a host of relatives and
friends. Services will be at 2 p.m. Monday at Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with the Rev. Paul B.
Gibson presiding. Burial will be in Tadd Goodin Cemetery at Greasy Creek. Pallbearers will be family and friends.
Visitation is after 9 p.m. today at Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville, which is in
charge of arrangements
Source:  newspaper dated 11/19
CARMICKLE, VIRGIL, age 62, a resident of Dorton Branch, Ky..  Died Saturday,  December 31, 1988 at Pineville Community Hospital.   He was born
August 24, 1925, in Ohio County.   He was the son of the
late Enoch Carmickle and Susan E. Steward Carmickle.  He was a custodian at the Pineville School
for over 20 years.  He believed in the Holiness faith.  He was preceded in death by his parents and one brother- John
Fletcher and in 1973 by Virgie Faye Johnson.  He is survived by two sons;  James Robert Johnson and Ricky
Lynn Carmickle both of Pineville, Ky.,  Two daughters;   Mrs. Diane Brock and Shirley Patterson both of
Pineville, Ky.,  one brother;  Bethel Earl Carmickle of Pine Grove, Ky., and three sisters;   Mrs. Bessie Evelyn Stewart
of Beaver, Ky.,    Mrs. Anna Mertle Kohnston  and Mrs. Rosie Opal McCaslin of Horse Branch,
Ky.,    fourteen grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Services were at 2 p.m. Wednesday Jan. 2, 1989 at the Durham Funeral Home
Chapel with Rev. David Rice.  Billy Sinkhorn and Jack Elliott provided the
music.  Burial followed in the Johnston Cemetery in Mill Creek, Ky..   The pallbearers who served were his grandsons.  The honorary pallbearers were
Fred Sloan, George Shelton, and Dr. Jerry Woolum.  Durham
Funeral Home was in charge of the arrangements.
(The Sun-Courier, Friday, January 6, 1989)
Carnes, Carl -64, of
Pineville, passed away on Friday, March 18, 2005 at the Baptist Hospital of East
Tennessee. He was born in Arjay on July 28, 1940 the son of the late Walter
Carnes and Minnie Jones Lovell. He was a member of the First Baptist Church of
Pineville and had been an Insurance Agent. He was a member of the Bell Masonic
Lodge F & AM #691, the NALU and served on the 4-H Council.  He enjoyed being an
insurance agent, meeting the people and helping them meet their needs. Carl was
a loving husband, father and grandfather who enjoyed gardening, carpentry and
working around the house and he thoroughly enjoyed spending time with his
grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his parents, sisters, Cora Warren and
Judy Carnes and brothers, Ben and Lonnie Carnes. Survivors include his wife of
44 years, Lois Asher Carnes, two daughters and sons-in-law, Elizabeth and Ron
Gilley and Helena and Gary Woods; four grandchildren, Reagan and Victoria Gilley
and Katherine and Sarah Woods; brothers and sisters, Ernie Carnes, Carolyn
Hubbard, Kenneth Carnes, Hays Carnes, Mary Warren, Doyle Carnes, Donnie Carnes,
Wanda Neal, Ruby Carnes and Freda Pursifull and a host of nieces, nephews and
friends. Services were Monday at the First Baptist Church of Pineville with Rev.
Ron Howard, Rev. Charles Jones and Rev. George Neal. Music was by Katherine
Woods and Mickey Wilder. Interment was in the Green Hills Memorial Gardens,
Middlesboro. Pallbearers were Robbie Landrum, Dewayne Goodin, E.B. Asher, Donnie
Brock, Glen Hobbs, Michael Carnes, Ben Carnes, Jr. and Mark Reeder. Honorary
pallbearers will be Eldon Asher, Marvin Amburgey, Bill Griffith, Estil Brock,
Tommy Asher, Lee Stewart, Fred Goodin and Dr. Bienvenido Cabuary.  Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home, Pineville, was in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, March 24, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Carnes, Brandy Rachelle’ Foister
-26, of Pineville, passed away on Sunday, December 12, 2004 in Tazewell, TN. She
was born in Pineville on January 17, 1978 the daughter of Fred and Wanda Saylor
Foister. She was a member of the Arjay Baptist Church and had been a homemaker.
Brandy loved her children, nieces and family. She was preceded in death by her
grandparents, Richard D. Saylor, Helen Saylor and Sudie and Millard Foister;
special cousin, Buck Foister and uncles, Randall Lee, Frank and Jesse Foister.
Survivors include her parents, Fred and Wanda Foister, husband, Brian Edward
Carnes; children, Brittany, Cody and Austin Carnes; sister, Cerina Foister,
nieces, Hannah Witt and Mary Mackinsey Napier; aunts and uncles, Richard Saylor,
Ronnie and Geraldine Saylor, Glenda and Mack Mitchum, Terri and Ronnie Blevins,
Jewell and Jerry O’Quin, Jimmy and Lois Foister. Jack and Shannon Foister, Sam
and Nadine Foister, Viola and Lee Goodin, Dorothy and Jim Allen, Helen Walker
and Catherine Miller and a host of other relatives and friends. Services will be
at 2:00 PM Wednesday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with Rev. Taylor Adams
and Rev. Ricky Foister. Music will be by Larry and Debbie Green and Anna Carol
Foister. Burial will be in the Jenson Cemetery. Pallbearers will be Eugene
Collett, R.E. Collett, Ricky Foister, Ronnie Blevins, Jerry O’Quin and Mike
Goodin. The family will receive friends from 6 – 9 PM Tuesday at the Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home, Pineville
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, December 16, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CARNES, COSTELLO, a resident of Arjay, Ky., died Thursday, October 25, 1990 at his daughter's home in Beverly, Ky.  He was born April 3, 1918 in Knox county, the son of the late Tip CARNES and Lula
GAMBREL CARNES.  He
believed in the Baptist faith.  He was a retired coal miner.  Other than his parents he is preceded in death by his wife Rosalee COLLETT CARNES, one son,
Costello CARNES Jr., and six
brothers and sisters. Survivors include four sons, Glenn CARNES, Stoney Fork, Ky., Steven CARNES,Pineville, Ky., Arley CARNES and Marion Ray CARNES, both of Dorton Branch, Ky.;two daughters, Mrs.
Mary Lou LAWSON,
Beverly, Ky., and Mrs. Cheryl BROCK, Stoney Fork, Ky.; sixteen grandchildren.  Services were conducted Saturday, October 27, at 2:00 p.m. at the Durham
Funeral Home Cahpel with
the Revs. Charles Ed GRIFFIN and Russell MURPHY officiating. Music was provided by Edith GRIFFIN and Rev. Russell MURPHY.Pallbearers were sons-in-law and brothers-in-law.  Honorary pallbearers were
Mason SLUSHER, Dr. Jerry WOOLUM, R.R. EVANS, Homer BROCK, Tim LEWIS, James WOOLUM and Kenneth CARNES. Durham Funeral Home in charge of arrangements.
submitted by Barbara Rice
CARNES, GEORGETTA SIMPSON, age 73, of Flat Lick, died Saturday, April 27, 2002 in the Baptist Regional Medical Center in Corbin.  She
was a daughter of the late Floyd and Omie Carnes Simpson, born
to them on September 28, 1928 in Bell County.  Mrs. Carnes was a beloved mother
and homemaker, and a member of the East Jellico Baptist Church at Tinsley.    On November 11, 1947, she united in marriage to
Rev. Lee Roy Carnes, and to this union a son and four daughters were born.  Along
with her parents, she was preceded in death by her husband, Rev. Lee Roy Carnes on June 20, 1988, and two brothers, Rob
Simpson and Charlie Simpson. Surviving Mrs. Carnes are her loving children: Merrell T. Carnes
and wife, Sheila of Crossville, Tennessee; Sharon Kay Valentine and husband, Ed and Debra Gail Haggard and husband
Mike both of Corbin; Brenda Lou Kessler and husband, Rick of Jacksonville, Florida and
Melissa Rochelle Bailey and husband, Bill of Pineville; her loving grandchildren; Steven Carnes, Nicole Thorley, Nicholas
Carnes, Eddie Valentine, Nathan Valentine, Cassi Haggard, Courtney Haggard, Chad
Haggard, Chaylee Haggard, Kailee Bailey, Meghan Bailey, Zachary Kessler and Austin Kessler.    Her loving great-grandchildren:
Kelsey Carnes, Will Thorley and Trey Valentine.  Her loving brothers: Ted Simpson of Walker and Joe
Simpson and wife, Mable of Trotwood, Ohio; her loving sisters: Gladys Carnes and Luediene Hines both of New Lebanon, Ohio.  Two special
friends: Anita Earls and Betty Cook; and many other relatives and friends to mourn her passing.    Funeral services for Georgetta Simpson Carnes were conducted at the
East Jellico Baptist
Church at Tinsley April 30, 2002 with Rev. Ronald Howard and Rev. Tommy Patrick officiating.    Burial was in the Green Hills Memorial Gardens in
Midddlesboro.    Those serving as pallbearers were: Steven Carnes,
Nicholas Carnes, Eddie Valentine, Nathan Valentine, Dale Thorley and Joe Messer.    Hopper Funeral Home was in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, May 2, 2002
From: Janet Wolfrum Date: Saturday, June 01, 2002 12:35 PM
Carnes, Myrtle
Woolum  The Middlesboro Daily News
ARJAY—Myrtle
Woolum Carnes, age 88, of Arjay, passed away Thursday, September 9, 2010 at the
Pineville Community Hospital. She was born in Bell County
on August 26, 1922 a daughter of the late George Bradley and Ella Wilder Woolum.
She believed in the Baptist Faith and had been a homemaker. In addition to her
parents she was preceded in death by
her husband, Jim Matt Carnes; daughter, Betty Deloise Bingham. Survivors include
her son, Kenneth Lee Carnes and wife, Daisy; daughter, Darlene C. Allen and
husband, Ronnie; son-in-law, Odell
Bingham; grandchildren, Ryan Keith Bingham, Chris Duane Bingham, Randall Lee
Carnes, David Lynn Carnes, Vicki Meichelle Allen, Ricki Lynn Allen; 9
great-grandchildren, 3 great-great-grandchildren;
brother, Robert H. and Myrtle Woolum, sisters, Mary Taylor and Marie Alderson
and a host of nieces, nephews, other relatives and friends. Services will be 2
PM Sunday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home Chapel with Rev. James Polly and Rev. Millard Robbins. Music will be by
Theda Polly and girls, Pauline Collett and Esther York. Burial will be in the
Pineville Memorial Cemetery. Pallbearers will
be Ryan Bingham, Chris Bingham, Randy Carnes, Ricki Allen and Vicki Allen. The
family will receive friends from 6 until 9 PM Saturday at the Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home and Cremation Center, which
is honored to serve the Carnes family.
CARNES, LONNIE,  age 29, a resident of Arjay, Ky., passed away February 15,
1996 at Arjay,  Ky. He was born July 7.; 1956 in Bell County Ky., the son of Walter and Fannie Smith Carnes.  He believed in
the Holiness faith.  He is survived by: his mother, Mrs.  Fannie Carnes.  Arjay; his wife, Mrs. Barbara
Sheperd Carnes, Arjay,  son, Lonnie Isaac Carries, Arjay; 2 daughters: Angela Carnes and Alisha Carnes, both
of  Arjay;  8 brothers:  Kenneth Carnes, Hayes Carnes, Doyle Carnes, Connie Carnes and Ben Carnes, all of Arjay.  Ernie Carnes
and Carl Carnes, both of Pineville, Ky.  Lloyd Baker, Indiana; 7 sisters, Mrs.
Judy Smith, Mrs. Mary Warren, Miss Freida Carnes and Mrs. Carolyn Hubbard, all of
Arjay;            Mrs. Wanda Neal, Pineville; Mrs.  Ruby Downey, Hamilton, Ohio;  Mrs. Gertie Mae Tipton,  Wallins Creek, Ky.
Funeral services for Mr. Carnes were held at 2 p.m. Tuesday, February 18, 1 986 at the Durham Funeral
Home Chapel with Revs. George Neal and Elmer Parrott officiating. Burial followed in the Red Hill
Cemetery, Arjay Ky.  The Pallbearers who served were Ricky Frazier, Carl Warren, Arnold Sizemore, Earl Neal, Denver Lewis, and John
Arthur Lingar. Durham Funeral Home was in charge of arangements.
CARNEY, ETHEL, a former school teacher of Claredon, Arkansas passed away Thursday, May 3, 2001.  She was 83.
Funeral service for Mrs. Carney was Friday May 4, 2001 at Bob Neal
& Sons Funeral Home Chapel in Clarendon, Arkansas with Rev. Pat Litts officiating.
Burial was Monday, May 7, 2001 at Oak Hill Cemetery, Griffin, Georgia.Ethel Carney a daughter of the late George
Hendrickson and Fannie Bell Walker Hendrickson, was born in Pineville, Kentucky on October 7,
1917.  She was a graduate of Lone Jack High School and continued her education at Eastern College of
Kentucky.  Ethel taught school for a number of years and was united in marriage to Joseph Carney at the home of her parents, on June 12, 1947. After the death of her husband and mother, she moved to
Clarendon in 1985, coming from Pineville.    Ethel became active in the Clarendon community.  She attended
Clarendon United Methodist Church where she was a member of the U.M.W. and the Women's
Sunday School Class.  Ethel was a former member of the Clarendon Garden Club and played bridge with a number of clubs.
Left to cherish her memory are her daughter, Rhonda Lee and husband
David, Clarendon, AK; one brother, James Hendrickson and wife Kathleen, Pineville, KY; one sister, Geneva Hacker and husband Ralph, London, KY;
three grandchildren, Laura, Elizabeth and Mary
Margaret Lee all of Clarendon, AK. Bob Neal & Sons Funeral Home of Clarendon, Arkansas was in charge
of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, may 10, 2001
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum  Date:8/16/01 10:09:42 AM Eastern Daylight Time
Carroll, Mrs. Anna Mae -age 63, of Tinsley, Ky.,
Passed away Friday, July 5, 1974, in Pineville Community Hospital. She was born
April 9, 1911, in Knox County, Ky., daughter of the late Tabatha Honeycutt
Lawson and Calvin Lawson, and he survives. Other survivors include ten children,
Arvil Carroll, Mrs. Daisy Griffith, Mrs. Marie Willit, Carl Carroll, Calvin
Carroll, and Charles Carroll all of Detroit, Mich., Lewis Edgar Carroll and Mrs.
Nadine Berry of Houston, Texas, Mrs. Mildred Fuson of Wayne, Mich., and Curtis
Carroll of Pineville; three sisters; Mrs. Elon Gibson of Middlesboro, Mrs. Radie
Jones of Ingram, Ky., and Mrs. Zelma Lawson of Tinsley; four half-brothers, John
C Lawson and Rice Lawson both of Tinsley, Lilburn Lawson of Middlesboro and Evy
Russ of Barbourville, Ky.   Funeral services were conducted at 2 pm Sunday July
& at the White Church Baptist Church with Rev. Leroy Carnes and the Rev. Harold
Maynes officiating. Burial was in Ingram Cemetery, Tinsley. Durham Funeral Home,
Pineville, in charge.
Submitted by Lesa Scheid
CAWOOD, MATTIE LEE BYRD-- Mrs. Mattie Lee
Byrd Cawood, age 78, of Bellwood Road, Middlesboro, passed away Thursday, July
11, 1974, in the Claiborne County Hospital.  She was born March 13, 1896, in
Hancock County, Tenn., the daughter of the late William Campbell Byrd and Sarah
Sally Borman Byrd.  She was married to John Cawood, Sr., September 7, 1914, and
would have been married 60 years in September.  A longtime resident of
Middlesboro, Mrs. Cawood was a member of the Binghamtown Baptist Church.  She
was preceded in death by three children, Claude, Eldora and Randolph. Survivors
include her husband, John Cawood, Sr., of Middlesboro; one son, John Cawood,
Jr., of Middlesboro; one daughter, Mae Bundren of Pleasant Hill, Mo.;  two
sisters, Mary Ely of Middlesboro and Jenny Leedy of Trenton, Mich., one brother,
Doyle Byrd of Middlesboro; nine grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
Funeral services will be conducted at 2 p.m. Sunday at the Binghamtown Baptist
Church with the Rev. W.B. Bingham officiating.  Music will be by Jimmy Jackson,
accompanied by Barbara Taylor.  Burial will be in the Middlesboro Cemetery. The
family will receive friends from 7 until 9 p.m. Saturday at the Cawood Funeral
Home. Cawood Funeral Home in charge.
Source:  Middlesboro Daily News - July 16, 1974
Submitted by: Pat Akers Lacy
Chadwell, Ray -EWING, Va. - 83, passed away on Friday, Sept. 9, 2005,
at Middlesboro Appalachian Regional Hospital. He was born in Lee County, Va.,
and was the son of the late Jim and Nellie Minter Chadwell. He retired as
maintenance supervisor for the Ypsilanti Press Newspaper. He returned to Lee
County in 1978. He attended and sang at many area churches and was a member of
Morley Memorial Methodist Church. He was a member of the Boone's Path Lions Club
and was an active member of the AARP. He was preceded in death by his first
wife, Clara Ely Chadwell, five brothers and one sister. He is survived by his
wife, Olga C. Chadwell of Ewing; numerous special nieces and nephews; and
special friends Carol Partin and Teresa Jerrell. Funeral services will be held
at 8 p.m. Monday Arney-Mullins Funeral Home, Rise Hill Chapel with the Rev.
Norman Clark officiating. Burial be will at 10 a.m. Tuesday in the Elydale
Primitive Baptist Church Cemetery. Calling
hours are from 6-8 p.m. Monday at Arney-Mullins Funeral Home, Rose Hill, Va.,
which is in charge of arrangements.
Source:  Middlesboro Daily News
CHANDLER, PAULINE WOODWARD - age 79, passed away suddenly on Saturday,
September 24, 2005 at the UT Medical Center in Knoxville. She was a former
member of the Pineville United Methodist Church. As a resident of Pineville, she
was active in several community and school organizations, including the
Pineville Junior Women's Club, Pineville P.T.A., and Band Boosters and the
Kentucky Mountain Laurel Festival. "Ninny" will be missed by all who knew and
loved her. She was preceded in death by: her husband, Armond L. Chandler.
Survivors include: her daughter and son-in-law, Nancye and Jon Williams; her
most beloved grandsons, Jon Matthew, Daniel Clay and Barton Chandler;
sisters-in-law and brothers-in-law, Gerry and Jim Roan, Alberta and Don McCarty
and Ruby Chandler; several nieces and nephews; "special family", Christy Solly,
Eileen Turalba and Kristin Heinrich; and many friends in both Pineville,
Kentucky and Sevierville, Tennessee. Graveside services will be at 3:30 pm
Monday at the Pineville Memorial Cemetery. Memorial donations are suggested to
the American Cancer Society or the American Heart Association. The family will
receive friends from 1 until 3 pm at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home,
Pineville.
Source:  Knoxville News sentinel 26 Sep 2005
Submitted by Neal Byrge
Chandler, Pauline Woodward -age
79, passed away suddenly on Saturday, September 24, 2005 at the U.T. Medical
Center in Knoxville. She was a former member of the Pineville United Methodist
Church. As a resident of Pineville, she was active in several community and
school organizations, including the Pineville Junior Women’s Club, Pineville
P.T.A. and Band Boosters and the Kentucky Mountain Laurel Festival. “Ninny” will
be missed by all who knew and lover her. She was preceded in death by her
husband, Armond L. Chandler. Survivors include her daughter and son-in-law,
Nancye and Jon Williams, her most beloved grandsons, Jon Matthew, Daniel Clay
and Barton Chandler; sisters-in-laws and brothers-in-law, Gerry and Jim Roan,
Alberta and Don McCarty and Ruby Chandler; several nieces and nephews; “special
family” Christy Solly, Eileen Turalba and Kristin Heinrich and many friends in
both Pineville, Kentucky and Sevierville, Tennessee.  Services were Monday at
the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with Chaplain Larry Ogle.  Music was by Elaine
Turalba.  Burial was in the Pineville Memorial Cemetery.  Pallbearers were Jon
Williams, Matthew Williams, Daniel Williams and Barton Williams, James Roan,
Robert Roan and Michael Roan.Memorial donations are suggested to the American
Cancer Society or the American Heart Association.  The Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home, Pineville, was in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, September 29, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Cheek, Layton -75, of
Hulen, passed away on Saturday, June 11, 2005 at the Britthaven of Pineville
Nursing Home. He was born on March 2, 1930 in Brownies Creek a son of the late
Isabell Miracle and Jim D. Cheek. He was a member of the Brownies Creek
Community Chapel Church. In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by
his brother, McKinley Cheek. Survivors include his brothers and sisters, Robert
and Mandy Cheek, Loveland, MI, William Henry Cheek, Hulen, Sarah Kathy Wilder,
Carlton, MI, and Donnie and Clint Slusher of Calvin; nieces and nephews, Karen
S. Rhymer, Kathy Miller, Annette and Hasting Ray Wilder, Jr. and several other
nieces and nephews; special great-niece and nephew, Shannon Dannielle and Jason
Clint Rhymer; special cousins and friends, Wanda Saylor, Debbie Miracle, Stella
Cupp, Laura, Opal and Johnny Hobbs and Mary Middleton; a special thank you to
the staff of Britthaven of Pineville and Gussie, Evelyn and Linda, and a host of
other relatives and friends. Services were at 2 PM Tuesday at the Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home with Rev. Kenneth Hoskins and Rev. Terrell Gibson. Music was
by Rob Hunley, Rose Davis, Ron Hensley and Arthur Asher. Burial will be in
Pinelawn Memorial Gardens in Pineville. Pallbearers were Sam Saylor, David
Miracle, Jason Griffin, Carter Howard, Ricky Saylor and Jason Slusher. The
family received friends from 6 until 9 PM Monday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home, Pineville.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, June 16, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Childers, James Edward -67, of Bradfordtown, passed
away on Friday, July 30, 2004 at the Pineville Community Hospital.  He was born
in Balkan on October 8, 1936 a son of the late Arthur Charles and Ruby Cox
Childers.  He attended the Trinity Full Gospel Worship Center and had worked at
the Pontiac Division of General Motors Company. Survivors include his wife,
Sharon A. Childers, children, James Childers and Lou Jane Childers, brother and
sisters, William A. Childers of Chicago, IL, Sharon and Gabrieal Collett of
Frankfort, Wanda and Tony Smith of Columbia, TN, Sandra and George Helton and
JoAnn and Alvin Meek all of Lynnville, TN and a host of nieces, nephews and
friends.Services were at 2 PM Monday, August 2, at the Trinity Full Gospel
Worship Center at Ferndale with Rev. Charles Kersey and Rev. Jeff Kersey.
Burial was in Pinelawn Memorial Cemetery at Laurel Hill.  Pallbearers were
friends and family. The family received friends after 6 PM Sunday at the Trinity
Full Gospel Worship Center in Ferndale. Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville
was in charge of all arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, August 5, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Christopher, James (Art)
-a resident of Arjay, KY who passed away May 20, 2005 at the Pineville Community
Hospital.  He was born September 10, 1931 in Arjay, KY the son of the late Pete
& Mattie Christopher.   He was a believer in the Baptist Faith, retired from
General Motors Corp. and was a Coal Miner.  Other than his parents he was
preceded in death by his first wife Geraldien (Johnson) Christopher, 1 son Tony
Christopher, 2 brothers Edward and George Christopher, 2 sisters Katherine
O’Hara and Barbara Gambrel.  At the time of his death he was 73 years old, his
is survived by the following members of his family; wife of 28 years Joyce
Warren Christopher of Arjay, KY; 4 sons James, Nick, Pete and Tommy Christopher;
11 daughters Diana Christopher, Robin Taylor, Tela Hager, Mary Gould, Pat Brown,
Pam Russell, Sandy Christopher, Prescava Warren, Tracy Goldman, Trish Fields,
Samantha Daniels; 36 grandchildren; 39 great grandchildren; brothers Charlie
Christopher, Bobby Christopher, Chris Christopher, sisters Rose Storm, Mary Ivy,
Anna Lee Turner, Lena Wilder, Ruth Knuckles, Louisa Leath and a host of other
relatives and friends. Funeral Services were conducted Sunday 2:00 P.M. May 22,
2005 at the Arjay Baptist Church, with Rev. Bill Poore and Rev. Arthur Jackson
speaking.  Music was provided by Julie Wagner and Bill Durham.  Burial followed
in the Red Hill Cemetery.  Pallbearers were family and friends.  Creech-Durham
Funeral Home in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, May 26, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Claiborne, Marion E. -age
78, of Speedwell, passed away Jan. 27 at St. Mary's Medical Center Campbell
County. He was a member of Speedwell Academy Baptist Church and a 50 year member
of Valley Star Masonic Lodge. He was preceded in death by his parents, Alvin and
Maude Harris Claiborne; brothers, J.F. and Verlin Claiborne, one infant brother
and one infant sister. He is survived by his wife, Ruth Bean Claiborne;
daughters, Pat and David Ray of Speedwell, Susie and Steve Bailey of Piedmont,
SC, Tammy and Eddie Hoskins of Speedwell;
granddaughters, Starla Ray of Harrogate and Stacy Hoskins of Speedwell; great
grandson,
David Gibbs of Harrogate; brother, David H. Claiborne of Harrogate, several
nieces, nephews and a host of friends. Funeral services were held Jan. 29 in the
Cross Chapel with the Rev. Eddie Hoskins officiating. Interment was in the
Beeler Cemetery. In lieu of flowers memorials may be made to Community Baptist
Church in Speedwell. Cross Funeral Home was in charge of the arrangements.
Source: LaFollette Press 1 Feb 2007
Submitted by Neal Byrge
Cloud, Mary Hester -Pineville departed this
life on Sunday, July 10, 2005, at her home on Virginia Avenue at the age of
81.Services will be at 11 a.m. Friday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with
the Rev. Robert Cornett presiding.Burial will be in the Wallsend Cemetery,
Pineville. Pallbearers will be Harold Hill, Frankie Gambrel, Brent Madon,
Darrell Washington, Curtis Fergerson and Darren Cooke. Honorary pallbearers will
be Dr. J. Devapiran, staff at the Pineville Hospital, Butch Sams, Ashley Hobbs,
Alvin Fuson and Stoney.
The family will receive friends from 6 until 8 p.m. Thursday at the Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home, Pineville.
Source:  Middlesboro Daily News, July 15, 2005
Cloud, Mary Hester “Gran”
-departed this life on July 10, 2005 at her home on Virginia Avenue a the age of
81. She was born on May 28, 1924 to the late Joseph and Florence Stewart Cloud.
A life long resident of Pineville, she was preceded in death by one brother,
Joseph Cloud, Jr., three sisters, Mary Helen and Lucille Cloud and Jessie M.
Mays and a beloved daughter, Bernice Cooke. She was a member of Bethel Baptist
Church. Had worked in her early years at the Pineville Hospital and did domestic
work for the late Dr. Brooks of Pineville, Bettye Coligan and Valerie Saunders
of Pineville and also did hair for different families at Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home. She leaves to mourn her life, six children, Charles E. Pursiful and wife,
Debby of Sumner, WA; Raymond (DC) Cloud of Lexington, Anthony (Boo) Cloud of
Pineville Tenna T. Cloud, Mary Etta Cloud and Mary Edna Cloud of Pineville,
Thirteen grandchildren, Mary J. Pursiful of Barbourville, Anthony Cooke of
Harrogate, TN, Darren Cooke of Pineville, Jerome Fergerson and wife, April of
Pineville, Kevin and Annie Cloud and Karissa Johnson of Pineville, Erica Turner
of Lexington, Tiki Washington of Milwaukee, WI, Noah Pursiful of Florence, OR,
Buffy (Kevin) Newsome of Charlotte, NC, Jessica and Matthew Cloud of Middlesboro
and Paige Cloud of Lexington; ten great-grandchildren, three sisters, Catherine
White, Juanita Fergerson and Rosa Mary Cloud of Pineville; three special
friends, Ester McGaffee, Juanita Nelson of Pineville and Retha Mitchell of
Lexington, and Melcina Barksdale of Middlesboro.Services were Friday at the
Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with Rev. Robert Cornett. Burial was in the
Wallsend Cemetery, Pineville. Pallbearers were Harold Hill, Frankie Gambrel,
Brent Madon, Darrell Washington, Curtis Fergerson and Darren Cooke. Honorary
pallbearers were Dr. J. Devapiran, staff at the Pineville Hospital, Butch Sams,
Ashley Hobbs, Alvin Fuson and Stoney. Arrangements were by  the Arnett & Steele
Funeral Home, Pineville. Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday,
July 28, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Cobb, Hobart Lloyd -81,
of 28 Mallet Pointe, NE, Cartersville, GA passed away June 3 at his residence.
He was born July 4, 1925, in Middlesboro, KY; he was the son of the late Robert
Manuel Cobb and the late Julie Melvina Miracle Cobb. He was a retired
millwright. He was also a veteran of the United States Marine Corps and served
during World War II in the Pacific Theatre with beach landings on Peleliu and
Okinawa. He had many good friends and was a member of The Church at Liberty
Square. He was preceded in death by his parents; daughter, Lisa Diane Cobb;
brothers, Levi, Bill and Walt Cobb; sisters, Allie Capps, Hattie Cobb and Nancy
Hoskins. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Opal Smith Cobb of
Cartersville; daughters and sons-in-law, Pamela and Michael Smith of LaFollette,
Sheila and Don Jackson of Marietta and Debra and Thomas Rudasics of Beaufort,
SC; sisters, Martha Johnson of Middlesboro, KY, Bonnie Elworth of Clearwater, FL
and Loretta Mae Butler of Travelers
Rest. SC; grandchildren, Brian and Alesha Jackson, Jeffery and Shannon Jackson,
and Casey Jackson; great- grandchildren, Branum Jackson, Tyler Jackson and
Brooklynn Jackson; and many good friends and Sunday school class members.
Funeral services were held June 8 at The Church at Liberty Square with Dr. Joe
Edwards and Dr. Dale Murray officiating. Entombment followed at Providence
Cemetery and Mausoleum with full military honors. Parnick Jennings Funeral Home
and Cremation Services was in charge of the arrangements.
Source: LaFollette Press June 14, 2007
Submitted by Neal Byrge
Coleman, Mary
Etta Gambrel -31, of Calvin, passed away on Wednesday, May 12, 2004
at the University of Tennessee Medical Center from injuries sustained in an
automobile accident.  She was born in Pineville on August 10, 1972 the daughter
of John and Della Saylor Gambrel.  She was a believer in the Holiness Faith and
had been a homemaker.  Her brother, John David Gambrel, also died in the
accident.  Survivors include her husband, Roger Coleman, her daughter, Kendra
Boles, parents, John and Della Gambrel,  brother Jonathon Wayne Gambrel and a
host of aunts, uncles, cousins and friends.Services were held 11:00 a.m.
Saturday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with Rev. George Neal, Rev. Melvin
Beverly, Rev. Deboyce Givens and Rev. James Roark.  Burial followed in the
Saylor Cemetery at Brock Hollow.  Pallbearers were family and friends.
Source:  The
Pineville Sun, Thursday, May 20, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Collett, Carolyn Currey -of Pageland,
SC-54, passed away Friday, July 8, 2005, at her home. Born June 30, 1951, she was
the
daughter of the late Paul Lee Currey and Alice Lindsey Currey, who survives.
She was a member of Central Church of God. In addition to her
father, she was
preceded in death by a sister, Terri Eilene Currey. Survivors include her mother,
Alice Currey, Fairmont, W.Va.; husband,
Tommy J. Collett, Pageland, S.C.; one
brother, Paul Lee Currey, Fairmont, W.Va.; one sister, Pamila Severt, Charlotte,
N.C.; grandchildren,
Aaron Collett, Justin Collett, and Christopher Collett;
nephews, Eric, Jared, Adam, Elwood, and Jordan Severt; and very special friend,
Andy
Funderburk. Funeral services will be held at 2 p.m. Monday at Blackstar
Pentecostal Church with the Rev. J. C.. Craig and the Rev. Ray Stepp
presiding.
Music will be provided by church singers. Burial will be in Tackett Hill
Cemetery at Hulen. Pallbearers will be Jared, Adam, Justin,
Aaron, Wayne and
Elwood. The family received friends after 5
p.m. Sunday at Blackstar Pentecostal Church. Arrangements by Creech-Durham
Funeral Home, Pineville.
Source:  Middlesboro Daily News, July 13, 2005
COLLETT, FORD WAYNE - ARJAY - , 42, passed away Monday, June 24, 2002. He was
born Sept. 23, 1959, at Beverly, a son of the late
P. L. Collett and Mollie Louise North Collett. He believed in the Holiness faith.
Survivors include his wife, Mona Collett, Arjay; sons, Larry Wayne
Collett, Arjay, Joseph Dewayne Pridemore, Pineville, Ford Wayne Collett Jr., Pineville; daughters, Mona Yvonne Honeycutt and Andrea Betty
Collett, both of Arjay; brothers, Jimmy Collett, Middlesboro, L.P. Collett, Walker, Ky., Roger
Collett, Logan County, Ohio, and Donald Collett,
Arjay; two sisters, Linda Sue Aileen Eldridge, Walker, Ky., and Dorothy Collett, Arjay; one grandchild,
Joseph Dalton Honeycutt; and a host of
nieces and nephews.  Funeral services will be conducted at 3 p.m. Thursday at Arjay Pentecostal
Church with the Revs. Melvin Beverly and Gary
Wagner officiating. Burial will be in the Alex Collett Cemetery in Knox County, Ky. Pallbearers will be Billy
Ray Gray Jr., Ricky Kelsey, Jamie
(Eldridge) Collett, and Eugene Collett. Visitation is after 4 p.m. Wednesday at Arjay Pentecostal Church. Durham
Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
submitted by  Neal Byrge
COLLETT, IRENE SIZEMORE,  Arjay, passed away Thursday,
September 29, 1994 at the Pineville Hospital.  She was born January
2,
1941 in Bell county; daughter of the late Jim Sizemore and Cleo Woolum who
survives.    A life long resident of Bell County, she was a
homemaker, and a member of the Binghamton Baptist Church.  Survivors
include her mother, Cleo Woolum Sizemore of Loraine, Ohio;
husband, Gene Collett of Arjay; two sons Steve Collett and johnny Collett of
Arjay; one daughter, Lisa Irvin of Arthur, Tennessee; three
brothers, Paul Sizemore and Alber Sizemore of Loraine; Ray Sizemore of Arjay;
two sisters, Nellie Collett and Ludine Smith of Loraine.
Services were at 2 p.m. at the Arjay Baptist Church with the Rev. W B Bingham,
Bill Poore and Luther Collett.  Burial at the Red Hill
Cemetery at Arjay.
submitted by KAppleBlossom@aol.com
COLLETT, JANE PARTIN, 87, of Artemus, died Friday, March 29, 2002 in the Knox County Hospital. She was a daughter of the late John
Wesley and Cora Lay Partin, born to them on November 22, 1914 in Knox County. Mrs. Collett was a member of the Pleasant View Baptist
Church at Smokey. On January 5, 1934, she was united in marriage to Blevins Collett and to this union a son and daughter were born. Along
with her parents, she was preceded in death by her husband, Blevins Collett on August 28, 1975; her daughter, Betty Hyatt; a grandson, Estel
Wayne; her sisters, Florence Cox, Gertrude McFarland, Viola Hembree, Maude Chapman and Doris Scales; and her brothers, L.J. Partin, Frank
Partin and John Wesley Partin.  Surviving Mrs. Collett is her loving son, Estel (Delbert) Collett and wife Beulah of Artemus; her loving
grand
children, Paul Hyatt and wife Sharra and Donna Abner and husband Kenny, both of Heidrick, Cindy Gray and husband Frank of Barbourville,
Sherry Gambrel and Tonya Pilarski and husband Private Jason Pilarski of the United States Army, both of Artemus. Her great-grandchildren,
Christopher Abner, Joshua Abner, Nakia Hyatt, Todd Hyatt, Stephen Hyatt, Sarah Gray, Jennifer Gray, Brandon Marsee, Amada Gray,
Jonathan Gray and Tori Elisabeth Gray; and one great-great-granddaughter, Aquinna Jo Hyatt; her sister, Norma Hendricks and husband Bill
of Bental, Kentucky; and many nieces and nephews, and other relatives and friends to mourn her passing.
Funeral services for Jane Partin Collett
were conducted in the Hopper Funeral Home Chapel on Sunday, March 31, 2002 with the Rev. John Partin and the Rev. John Engel officiating.
Burial was in the Stewart Cemetery at Artemus. Those serving as pallbearers were friends and neighbors of the Collett family. Those serving as
honorary pallbearers were Dr. Kumar, Dr. Vora, the Knox County Hospital staff, Austin Elliott and David Moses.
Hopper Funeral Home was
in charge of all arrangements.
COLLETT, LAWRENCE, 78, a life-long resident of Kettle Island, Ky., died Monday,
May 2, 1988 at the Pineville Community Hospital.
He was born June 10, 1909 in Bell County, Ky., the son of the late Fox John COLLETT and Eliza HOSKINS COLLETT.  He was joined in
holy matrimony April 2, 1932 at Jenson, Ky., to Miss Margie ELLIOTT, daughter of Lee and Mary OSBORNE
ELLIOTT.  He was a retired
member of the United Mine Workers of America, a Kentucky Colonel and a member and trustee of Mill Creek Baptist Church.  He was
preceded in death by one son, Jackie COLLETT in 1962 and four brothers. He is survived by six children, Eugene COLLETT, Ohio, Vernon J.
COLLETT, Sr.. Campton, Ky., Mrs. Jewell NELSON, Bill COLLETT, Rev. Ray COLLETT, and Mrs.
Jaunita OSOLONIAN, all of Kettle
Island, Ky., Elisha COLLETT, Kissimmee, Fla.; one sister, Mrs. Mary JONES, Kettle Island, Ky.; 22 grandchildren and 15 great
grandchildren.
Services for Mr. Collett will be at 2p.m. Thursday, May 5, 1988 at the Mill Creek Baptist Church with Revs. Ronald HOWARD and Irving
GIPSON.  Burial will follow in the Pineville Memorial Cemetery.  His grandsons will be pallbearers.
Those serving as honorary pallbearers were
Woodford COLLETT, Dr. Talmadge V. HAYS, Red BROCK, George FROST, Charlie BAILEY, John WHITEHEAD, Gabe HOWARD, Paul
ELLIOTT, and the men of Mill Creek Baptist Church and many friends. Durham Funeral Home in charge of arrangements.
The Sun-Courier, Thursday, May 5, 1988
Collett, Lee-Straight
Creek-Lee Collett, 84, died Saturday, June 17 at Pineville Community Hospital.
He was native of Bell County and son of John and Martha Boles Collett. Surviving
are his wife, Mrs. Millie Collett; three sons, Lee Collett, Jr., Balkan, Eugene
Collett, Hulen; and Lonzo Collett, Kettle Island; two daughters, Mrs. Mattie
Hoskins, Pontiac, Mich.; and Mrs. Christine Hubbard, Dayton, Ohio; a brother
Chester Collett, Hulen; a stepson, Bill Norton, Straight Creek; 12 grandchildren
and two great-grandchildren. Funeral services were conducted Monday, June 19 at
Durham Funeral Home chapel with the Rev. Thea O. Carter officiating. burial was
in the Jensen Cemetery. Pallbearers were John Hoskins, Jr., Vernon Collett, Paul
Collett, Eddie Collett, Floyd Collett, and Gary Hubbard, Durham Funeral Home was
in charge of arrangements.
Submitted by Robin Woolum
COLLETT, MAE, 85, of Arjay, Ky died Friday, February 14, at the Pineville
Hospital.  She was born February 14, 1914 in Knox Co, Kentucky.
Daughter of the late James and Mary Brown Taylor, she was of the baptist faith
and attended The Arjay Baptist Church.  She was preceded in
death by her husband, Mack Collett, son-in-law, Birchell Sizemore,
daughter-in-law, Irene Collett, sister, Nora Durham, brothers, Coy, Clifton,
Conley, Robert.  Survivors include her children, Gene Collett, Mary
Sizemore, Marie Sizemore, Mack Collett, Jr., Wanda Collett, Jimmy Collett;
fifteen grandchildren, fourteen great grandchildren.  Services was at 2:00
p.m. at Arjay Baptist Church.  Burial in Red Hill Cemetery at Arjay.
submitted by KAppleBlossom@aol.com
COLLETT, NELL, age 72, a resident of Laurel Hill, died Monday, September 18, 1989
at the Pineville Community Hospital. She was born
November 17, 1916 in Bell County, the daughter of the late Jim JOHNSON, and Linda MONEY JOHNSON.  She was a believer in the
Holiness faith. She is survived by two sons, Andrew COLLETT, Laurel Hill, Ky., and Roy
COLLETT, Detroit, Mich.; three daughters, Mrs.
Maria BEST, Tazewell, Tenn., Mrs. Christine BROWNING, Four Mile, Ky., Mrs. Shelby Jean NEAL, Laurel Hill, Ky.; one
brother, John Matt JOHNSON, East Pineville, Ky.; four sisters, Mrs. Lilly HOWARD, and Mrs. Shirley MIRACLE, both of Columbus, Ohio, Mrs. Jo Ann MIRACLE,
Laurel Hill, Ky., Mrs. Geradine NAPIER, Detroit, Mich.; nineteen grandchildren and eighteen great grandchildren.
Services were Thursday,
September 21, 1989 at the Durham Funeral Home Chapel, with the Rev. George NEAL.  Burial was in the Roselawn Memorial Gardens,
Middlesboro, Ky. Durham Funeral Home in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Sun-Courier, Thursday, September 21, 1989
COLLETTE, JUDY- Waukegan, Illinois,  49, passed away Thursday, December 20, 2001,
at Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge, Ill. She
was born April 29, 1952 in Blanche, Ky, a daughter of the late Sillus Collette and
Hollie Grubbs. Survivors include sister Hazel Warren of London,
Ky.; nephews Lee Warren and Glenn Smith, both of Waukegan, Ill.; niece Barbara Slusher of Pineville; special aunt Ellen Miller of Beach
Park, Ill.,
and a host of other aunts, uncles, cousins and friends. Services will be 1 p.m. Friday at the Creech Funeral Home chapel
with Rev. David Hansel
presiding. Burial will be in the Greenhills Memorial Gardens. Visitation will be from 5-9 tonight at Creech
Funeral Home, which is in charge.
Colwell, Francine
-69, 709 Magnolia St., St. Marys, OH, died at 2:35 a.m. Nov. 5, 2006, at Valley
Nursing Home, St. Marys, following an extended illness. She was born Aug. 9,
1937, in Pineville, KY, to John and Myrtle Partin Martin.  On Sept. 29,
1956, she married Lowell Colwell, who survives. Also surviving are three
daughters, Belinda (Eric) Stoner, Cincinnati, Teresa Rowen, St. Marys, and
Regina, Columbus;  three brothers, Dillard Martin, Dayton, Huston Martin,
Portsmouth, VA, and Carl Martin, Arlington, Texas; a sister Jeannette Eldridge,
St. Marys, and four granddaughters. Deceased are two brothers, Garrett and Bill
Ed Martin. She was a homemaker and did babysitting in her home.  She was a
graduate of Bell County High School, KY, and a member of American Legion Post
323  Ladies Auxiliary and Samaria Missionary Baptist Church, both of St.
Marys. Services are 10 a.m. Wednesday at the church, the Rev. Jack Burns
officiating.  Burial will follow at Elm Grove Cemetery, St. Marys. Calling
is 5-8 p.m Tuesday at Miller Funeral Home, St. Marys. Contributions can be made
to the Auglaize County unit of the American Cancer Fund.
Source: Celina, OH Daily Standard on 11/06/06
Posted by Betty Engle
COMBS, LOUISE, 92 of Barbourville, Kentucky, passed away Monday, July 22, 2002, at Pineville Community Hospital. She was born in
Lebanon, Ky., on May 8, 1910, a daughter of the late Eddie Lee and Ida Lee Inman Lynch. She was a member of the First Baptist Church
of Pineville and Barbourville. She had been a Pineville City Clerk, Bell County Court Clerk, and had worked as a cashier at Flo-Co Drugs.
She had also been a secretary for Bo Combs' Law office and had been secretary for the Kentucky Mountain Laurel Festival. In addition to her
parents, she was preceded in death by her husband, Floyd Clinton "Bo" Combs, brothers and sisters, Sebra Irene White, Ruby Estella Geyer,
Eddie Lee Lynch Jr., Carroll Clifford Lynch and Curtis Raymond Lynch. Survivors include a host of nieces, nephews, other relatives and friends.
Services will be conducted at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with the Revs. Charles F. Jones and Jerome Stern
officiating. Music will be by Annette Walden. Burial will be in the Pineville Memorial Cemetery. Pallbearers will be her nephews. Donations are
suggested to the First Baptist Church of Pineville. The family will receive friends from 6-6:30 p.m. Wednesday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral
Home, Pineville, which is in charge of arrangements.
Source:  Middlesboro Daily News as posted 24 Jul 2002
Submitted by Neal Byrge Wednesday, July 24, 2002 8:25 PM
Cook, Charles- of Four
Mile, 69, died Tuesday June 20 at his residence. He was a native of Bell County.
Surviving are his wife, Mrs. Sudia Cook; two sons: Charles and H. A. Cook, Four
Mile; five daughters: Mrs. Sallie B. Hibbard, Louisville; Mrs. Judity Bays, Mrs.
Marie Matthews, and Mrs. Cora Mae Bays, Ely; and Mrs. Pauline Hodges, Chicago.
Funeral Services will be conducted at 2 p.m. Friday at the residence. Durham
Funeral Home is in charge of Arrangements.
Submitted by Robin Woolum
COOKE, BERNICE “BUNNY”  MAYS -In remembrance of Bernice “Bunny”
Mays Cooke, born to Mary Esther Cloud of Pineville, KY and Reo Mays of
Barbourville, KY. Bernice was a member of Bethel Baptist Church. United in
marriage to Anthony Wayne Cooke, Sr. of Lafollette, TN. Into this marriage two
sons, Anthony Wayne Cooke, Jr. and Darrin Christopher Cooke were born. She was
preceded in death by her father, Reo Mays, loving husband, Anthony Wayne Cooke,
Sr., loving sister-in-law, Mattie Andera Cooke, three aunts, Lucille Cloud,
Jessie Mays and Mattie Babbs, both grandmothers on her mother’s and her father’s
side, uncle, John Joseph Cloud and both grandfathers. She leaves to mourn her
passing her beloved mother, Mary Esther Cloud (Gran) of Pineville, two sons,
Anthony Wayne Cooke, Jr. of Harrogate, TN and Darrin Christopher Cooke of
Pineville, Flecia Akers, soon to be daughter-in-law of Harrogate, step-daughter,
Tina Tidwell and her children of Lafollette, TN; brother, Charles Pursiful and
wife, Debby of Summer, WA, Raymond (DC) Cloud of Lexington and Anthony (Boo)
Kirk Cloud; sisters, Tenna Cloud and twin sisters, Mary Edna (Cricket) and Mary
Etta Cloud, all of Pineville; sister-in-law, Belinda (Joe) Thomas of Lafollette,
TN, brother-in-law, Jeff Price of Harlan; beloved mother-in-law, Conley (Mother)
Price of Lafollette. A host of aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins and
loving friends. Special friends include June Kitts of Lafollette, Tammy Neal of
Middlesboro, Karen Claiborne of Lafollette and Margaret of Knoxville. Bernice
attended Pineville City School and was an Alumnus of Pineville High School. Upon
graduation she attended the University of Pittsburgh, PA where she studied
Business Community Development. After leaving college she began her career at
the Bell-Whitley Community Action Agency. She was a Vista Program employee for
the US Government for several years. She also worked for Human Resources
Division for the state of Tennessee. She was a coordinator for the Summer Youth
Program and also the coordinator for Claiborne Good Will. Memorial Services were
Sunday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with Rev. J.C. Jordan. The Arnett &
Steele Funeral Home, Pineville, was in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, January 27, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
COX, ARTHUR, 80, of Pineville Ky., died Monday July 25, 1988, at the Pineville Community Hospital following a long illness.  He was born
September 6, 1907 in Straight Creek, Ky., to the late Lige and Lula Brock Cox.  He was
a lifelong resident of Bell County and was a retired coal
miner.  He was a believer in the Baptist faith.  Mr. Cox is survived by a nephew, Larry Cox,
of Fort Wayne, Indiana;     a niece, Mrs. Sue Yates, of
Oakwood, Ohio; three sisters,   Euphemia Deaton  and Gladys Johnson of Pineville, Ky.,  and
Mattie Jones of Ohio.     Two brothers:  Grant Cox of
Pineville Ky., and Walter Cox of Middlesboro Ky., and many nieces and nephews.  Services were at
2 p.m. Wednesday, July 27, 1988 at the
Arnett Funeral Home Chapel with Rev.Theo Carter and Rev. W. B. Bingham.   Pallbearers were Bill Johnson, Gary
Johnson, Roscoe Johnson,
Lige Johnson, Bob Johnson and Tim Johnson.  Burial was in the Jenson Graveyard at Straight Creek, Ky.,  Arnett Funeral Home was
in charge of arrangements.
The Sun-Courier, Thursday July 28, 1988
Cox, Ben H. Jr, -73, passed away Wednesday, April 12, 2006, at
Middlesboro A.R.H.Born Aug. 22, 1932, in Corbin, Ky., he was the son of the late
Ben H. Cox Sr. and Rachel Lockaby Cox.In addition to his parents, he was
preceded in death by his wife of 40 years, Virginia J. White Cox. Retired with
Flav-O-Rich and Chappel Dairy, he had been a member of the Masonic Lodge for
over 50 years, the Lion Club for 20 years, and served as a director of National
Bank currently First State Financial Bank. Survivors include his daughter
Patricia Jane “Janie” Cox Hensley and husband Terry Hensley; granddaughter,
Rachel Mae Blair; very special friend, Barbara Partin; sister, Edith (Neil)
Matlock; brothers, Ray (Lenora) Cox, Roy (Alice) Cox, and Jerry (Mary Jo) Cox;
and several nieces and nephews. Funeral service will be held at 8 p.m. Saturday,
April 15, at Shumate Funeral Home with the Rev. John Bowling officiating.
Graveside service will be held at 1 p.m. Sunday in
the Ward Cemetery in London, Ky. Pallbearer will be Employees of Flav-O-Rich and
friends of the Family. The family will receive friends from 6-8 p.m. Saturday at
Shumate Funeral Home.
Source: Middlesboro Dailey News
April 15, 2006
COX, CALLIE - Pineville, 69, passed away Thursday, March 21, 2002, at Pineville Community Hospital. She was born April 12, 1932
in Knox
County, Ky. a daughter of the late Noah Warren and Elain Gambrell Warren. She was a member of the Chruch of God of Prophecy
at Wallsend.
Survivors include her husband Calvin Cox of 54 years and three sons, Josh Cox and wife Freida, Matthew Cox and wife
Shelby and Delbert Cox,
and one daughter Christine Cox Nunn and husband David. Four grandchildren, Michael Wayne Cox, Natasha
Willis, Hope Fugate anmd Lauren
Paige Nunn, four great grandchildren: Austin Cox and Madison Paidge Cox, Nathaniel Willis
and Ethan George of Fugate, one brother, Argene
Warren and a host of nieces and nephews and friends, one special freind Mary Sue
Attisson. Services will be at 2 p.m. Sunday at the Church of
God of Prophecy at Wallsend with Revs. Allen Lord and Homer Cox and Ronnie Cox. Burial will be in the Green Hill Cemetery. Music will be by
Joyce Cox and Rev. Allen Lord. Visitation will be 5-10 p.m. today at Durham Funeral Home which is in charge.
submitted by Janet Wolfrum Date: Thursday, October 07, 2004 12:19 PM
COX, FRANCES, 57, of Stoney Fork, passed away on Monday, September 29, 2003 at the
Pineville Community Hospital.  She was born in
Red Bird on December 19, 1945 daughter of the late Dillard and Mary Saylor.  She was a member of the Laurel Branch Pentecostal
Church and
had been a mail carrier.  Survivors include her husband, Ray Cox of Stoney Fork, daughters, Yolanda and Jerry
Pierson of Bledsoe, Terry Cox
and Ken Hoskins of Harlan and Teresa Cox of Stoney Fork, grandchildren, Brandon Robert Pierson and Santanna Rae Cox; sister, Gracie Mae
Wilson of Stoney Fork and a host of other relatives, friends and loved ones.
Services were held at 2 PM Thursday at the Laurel Branch Pente-
costal Church with Rev. Herstel Belcher and Rev. Thea O. Carter.  Burial followed in the Saylor Cemetery
at Ben's Branch.  Pallbearers were
nephews and friends.  The family received friends after 6 PM Tuesday and all day Wednesday at the Church.
Arnett & Steele Funeral Home,
Pineville, was honored to serve the Cox family.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, October 2, 2003
submitted by Janet Wolfrum
COX, GRANT, 90, of Jensen, passed away on Friday, March 28, 2003 at the Claiborne County Hospital in
Tazwell.  He was born to Lige and
Lula Brock Cox on April 2, 1912 at Straight Creek, KY.  He had worked in lumber and sawmills.    In addition to his parents, he was preceded in
death by brothets and sisters, Phema Deaton, Nan White, Arthur Cox, Elmer Cox, Pearl Cox, Gladys Johnson and Hetti
Cadle.    Survivors include
brother, Walter Cox, sister Mattie Jones, a host of nieces, nephews, other relatives and friends.Services were Monday at the Arnett & Steele
Funeral home with Rev. Ray Collett and Rev. Irving Gipson.    Burial was in the Jensen Cemetery, Jensen.  Pallbearers were family and friends.
Arnett & Steele Funeral Home, Pineville, was honored to serve the Cox Family.
Source:  The Pineville Sun:  Thursday, April 3, 2003
submitted by Janet Wolfrum 12/26/2003
Cox, Joyce Brock -53,
passed away July 12, 2005 at her home after a long struggle with cancer. She was
born February 3, 1953 in Beverly, KY, the daughter of the late Golden Brock and
Chesney Lawson Brock who survives. She was a member of Saylor Crockett Holiness
Pentecostal Church and was a homemaker. She was best known as “The Footprints
Lady” due to the fact that she sang “Footprints in the Sand” at so many churches
and funerals. She was a spiritually uplifting singer that encouraged so many
throughout her lifetime. Survivors include her husband of 33 years, Jerry Wayne
Cox; mother, Chesney Brock, daughter and husband, Amy and Benjamin Proffitt;
son, Jonathan Golden Wayne Cox all of Arjay, two brothers, Eugene (Mary Kay)
Brock of Fort Wayne, IN and Richard Bentley (Lois) Brock of Arjay; two sisters,
Evelyn (Estile B.) Gregory of Arjay and Barbara (Duane) Buell of Fort Wayne;
nephews, nieces, family and friends. Services were Friday at the Saylor Crockett
Holiness Pentecostal Church with Rev. Ronnie Hoskins and Rev. George Neal. Music
was by her church family and friends. Burial was in the Brummett Cemetery at
Arjay. Pallbearers were Nephews and family. Honorary pallbearers were Dr.
Talmadge V. Hays and the staff of the Mountain Heritage Hospice. Arnett & Steele
Funeral Home, Pineville, was in charge of arrangements.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, July 28, 2005
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Cox, Norma Jean
Beverly -72, of Pineville, passed away on Sunday, October 17, 2004 at
her home.  She was born in Blanche on September 12, 1932 the daughter of the
late Latimore and Nora Honeycutt Beverly.  She had been a homemaker and was a
member of Arjay Baptist Church.In addition to her parents, she was preceded in
death by her husband of 38 years, Ernest “Buster” Cox, sons George Otis and
Jackie Marcus Cox, sisters, Rosella, Nellie and Mable Beverly and
sisters-in-law, Vernie and Brenda Geraldine Beverly.Survivors include her
children, Margaret Ann Cox of Middlesboro, Joe William Cox of Pineville and
David Colson and Janice Cox of Van Wert, OH; 11 grandchildren; brothers and
sisters, Ida and Queen Smith of Crestline, OH, Herbert and Nancy Beverly of Ft.
Wayne, IN, Hugh Beverly of Zanesville, OH and Doris and Bill Echmann of
Pineville and a host of nieces, nephews and friends.Services were at 2 PM
Thursday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home with Rev. Bill Poore and Bishop
Custer Watts.  Music will be by Becky Cox.  Burial followed in the Green Hills
Memorial Gardens in Middlesboro.  Pallbearers were Billie Lynch, Bill Echmann,
Ryan and Randy Cox, Junior, Doug and Darrell Beverly and Junior Lyons.The family
received friends after 6 PM Wednesday at the Arnett & Steele Funeral Home,
Pineville.
Source:  The Pineville Sun, Thursday, October 28, 2004
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
Creekbaum, Mrs. Alice
E.-Services for Mrs. Alice E. CREEKBAUM, wife of George W. CREEKBAUM,
willl be conducted at 10 a.m. Friday at the D. M. Lowe Funeral Home by the Rev.
Joseph E. McKENNA.  Burial will be in Calvary Cemetery. Mrs. CREEKBAUM died at
9:20 a.m. yesterday at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Margaret HAMBRICK, 504
West Short Street.  Born in Pineville, she was a daughter of the Late Harrison
and Mary HUTCHINSON TAYLOR.  She was a member of St. Paul's Catholic Church.
Survivors besides her husband and daughter include two sons, Ernest C. TINGLE,
Lexington, and Nish SIMPSON, Coal Good; a sister, Mrs. Margaret OWENS,
Lexington, and seven grandchildren.   Bearers will be Gus WELSH, William
FLANNERY, Phil MINOR, Edward BOONE, Jeff JOHNSON and Robert SCULLY.
The Lexington Herald
December 4, 1958, Page 12
Submitted by:  Joyce Taylor Collins
Cuff, Betty M. -age 75
of Virginia Beach, VA, passed away Nov. 4 in Mary Washington Hospital in
Fredericksburg, VA. She was born Jan. 8, 1930 in Middlesboro, KY, the daughter
of the late Tilman and Ollie Moyers. She married at age 16 to the love of her
life, Luther A. Billingsley, who preceded her in death. She was also preceded in
death by her second husband, Victor C. Cuff on Oct. 20 of this year. She
attended Beechlawn Baptist Church and was a member of the Ladies of the Shrine,
Khedive Temple, Norfolk, VA. In addition to her parents, she is also preceded in
death by her brothers, Warren and Hollis Moyers. She leaves to cherish her
memory her son, Ronnie (Linda) Billingsley of Stafford, VA; grandson, Richard
(Dame) Billingsley of Chesterfield, VA; sisters, Mable Cupp of Richmond, VA,
Bennie McChesney of Virginia Beach, VA, Shirley Kelsch of Louisville, KY, Gail
Smith, Henderson, KY; brothers, Lewis Moyers of Kingsport, Richard Moyers of
Harrogate; great granddaughter, Katie Rose Billingsley of Chesterfield, VA.
Funeral services will be Nov. 10 at 2 p.m. at the
Reece Valley Chapel. Interment will be in the Kibert Cemetery. In lieu of
flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Shriners Hospital for Children,
Office for Development, 2900 Rock y Point Dr, Tampa, FL 33607-1460. Reece
Funeral
Home and Valley Chapel was in charge of the arrangements.
Source: The LaFollette Press 10 Nov 2005
Submitted by Neal Byrge
Note:  Parents of Betty -Tilman
H. and
Ollie Monday
Moyers tombstone photos in Yeary Cemetery, brothers tombstone
Hollis Moyers. Betty's
grandmother, Mattie Akers Monday was a sister to James Luther Akers grandfather
of Pat Akers Lacy
Cupp, Floyd of
Cubbage,59, passed away Monday, Jan. 16, 2006, at Pineville Community
Hospital.He was born Jan. 7, 1947, to the late Daniel and Bertha Cupp.In
addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by sisters, Ruby Cupp, Imogene
Cupp, Myrtle Wilder, Ethel Wilder; brothers, Walter, Willie, and Henry Cupp; and
son, Mike Hensley.Survivors include his wife, Loretta “Tootsie” Cupp, Cubbage;
children, Shannon (Anthony) Scott, Cape Norris, Tenn., Floyd (Tonia) Cupp Jr.,
Cubbage, Donnie (Jessica) Cupp, Cubbage, Charlene (James) Knuckles, Laurel Hill
(Pineville), Charles Wayne (Pam) Hensley, West Fargo, N.D.; five special
grandchildren, Misty (Fin) Hensley-McGaffey, Kevin Scott Hensley, Michael Tyler
Cupp, Mitchell Floyd Cupp, Megan Nichole Scott; brother, Gene Cupp, Holston
Valley, Va.; sisters, Opal Middleton, Smith, Ky., Kathleen Burke, Harrogate,
Tenn., Lois Pruitt, Pineville, Louise Saylor, Pennington Gap, Va., and Shirley
Cupp, Harlan, Ky.; brothers and sisters-in-law, Ronnie (Imogene) Wilder,
Waterford, Mich., H.B. (Sharon) Wilder, Clarkston, Mich., Roger (Gayle) Wilder,
Speedwell, Tenn., Scott Wilder Jr. and Josie, Pineville, Alma (Randall) Gibbons,
Rockwood, Tenn., Patsy (Chuck) Johnson, Chattanooga, Tenn., Janice (Conley)
Hensley, Page Cut Off, Pearlie Wilder, Cubbage; special friends, Ralph (Saluda)
Wilder, Ules (Dollie) Gibbons, Wesley (Dorothy) Coleman; and a host of nieces,
nephews, and other relatives and friends.Graveside services will be held at 11
a.m. Thursday at Taylor-Wilder Cemetery at Cubbage with his nephews Teddy Wayne
Wilder and Jeff Burke presiding. Music will be by Marion and Goldina Lawson.The
family will receive friends from 5-9 p.m. Wednesday at Creech Funeral Home.
Memorials are suggested to the American Heart Association. Arrangements by
Creech Funeral Home, Middlesboro
Source:  The Middlesboro Daily News, January 18, 2006
Submitted by Janet Wolfrum
CULPEPPER, LYNN LEWIS-33, Michigan City, died at 11:30 p.m. Sunday
(May 17, 1998) at her home. The funeral will be at 10 a.m. Friday at
Ott/Haverstock Funeral Chapel with the Rev. Dennis Pickens officiating. Burial
will be in Greenwood Cemetery. Friends may call from 50 to 9 p.m. Thursday and 9
a.m. until the time of service Friday at the funeral chapel. Mrs. Culpepper was
born Nov. 13, 1964 in Pineville, Ky., the daughter of Charles and Lola May
Bailey Woolum. Surviving are three daughters, Heather Lewis, Amanda Lewis, Megan
Renea Lewis, all of Michigan City; a son Kevin Lewis, Michigan City; a sister,
Pam Woolum, LaPorte; six brothers, Terry Woolum, Wayne Woolum, Doug Woolum, Luke
Woolum, all of Michigan City, Mark Woolum, Portage, Brian Woolum, Grander, Ind.;
a grandmother Sally Roach, Michigan City; and several aunts, uncles and cousins.
Mrs. Culpepper was a nurses aide. She played for the Red Oaks Healthcare Center
Volleyball Team. Memorials maybe made to the Lynn Lewis Culpepper Family.
Submitted by Robin Woolum