Home - Ohio History Connection
DONATE
STORE
MEMBERSHIP
ABOUT US
Visit
Browse Historic SitesAccessibilityOhio History Center
Current Exhibits
Ohio Village
Ohio Village Newspaper
Special Attractions
Hopewell Ceremonial Earthworks
Museums for All Columbus
Ohio Presidential Trail
Events & Experiences
Calendar of ActivitiesFacility Rentals
Spaces & Capacities
Catering
Weddings
Group Visits
The Ohio History Center & Ohio Village
Education
Digital Curricula
Ohio As America
United Stories of America
Virtual LearningMuseum In A BoxField Trips
Immersive Programs
Homeschool
Ohio History Day
Contest Information
Educators
Students
Judges
Family
Youth History Day
Activities & Lesson Plans
Education Blog
Investigating History
Virtual Quest
Professional Development
Preserving Ohio
State Historic Preservation Office
Online Mapping System
Historic Atlases
Consultant Lists & SHPO Fees
Ohio Open Doors
State Historic Preservation Office Awards
Survey & Inventory
Ohio Archaeological Inventory
Ohio Historic Inventory
Ohio Landscape Inventory
Ohio Shipwreck Inventory
Ohio Modern Preserving Our Recent Past
Inventory Form Submission
Federal & State Reviews
About Section 106
Submitting a Project for Section 106
Project Status Check for Section 106
Programmatic Agreements for HUD-Funded Projects
Certified Local Governments
Becoming a Certified Local Government
Grant Application & Administration
Local Historic Preservation Ordinances
Ohio History Fund Grants
Apply for a Grant
Support the History Fund
Grant Administration
Grant Recipients
National Register of Historic Places
Ohio Historic Site Preservation Advisory Board
Questionnaire & Nomination Process
Sample Listed Nominations
National Register Searchable Database
Preserving Ohio’s Place in the Civil Rights Movement
Certificate of Listing
Historic Preservation Tax Incentives
Ohio Historic Preservation Tax Credit
Federal Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit
Tax Credit Program Contacts
History & Preservation Where You Live
Historic Preservation Planning
Building Doctor
AmeriCorps
Ohio Historical Markers
Resources for Historic Buildings
Ohio Revolutionary War Veterans Graves Project
Local History Services
Funding Opportunities
Get Involved
Donate
Conestoga
Your Legacy
Call for Collections
Ohio River Museum Fund
Poindexter Village Museum and Cultural Center Fund
Sponsorship Opportunities
Join
Reciprocal Benefits
Volunteer or Intern
Ohio Village Muffins
JobsAdvocacy
Community Engagement
Statehood Day
Ohio Holocaust and Genocide Memorial
Ohio Commission for the U.S. Semiquincentennial
Ohio History Leadership Awards
Research
Ohio MemoryBlogs & Publications
Blogroll
Archives & Library
State Archives
Manuscripts & Audiovisual Collections
Museum Collections
Registrar
Archaeology Collections
History Collections
Natural History
GOHI Collections
Local Government Records Program
Local Government Training Opportunities
Beginning with Records Management
Local Retention Schedules & Forms
County Archivists & Records Management Association
Disaster Preparedness & Response
American Indian Relations
DONATE
STORE
MEMBERSHIP
ABOUT US
Our Story
From our earliest history, we gather and tell stories. It’s through these stories that we connect. We connect to each other. We connect to shared beliefs and values. We connect to generations past as every tale is preserved and retold.
At Ohio History Connection, we don’t just tell the stories, we bring them to life. To your life.
Visit
Browse 58+ historic sites & museums located in 40 counties across Ohio.
Events & Experiences
Search by site, date or topic to find (or plan) the event that's just right for you.
Research
Search our collections, visit the Archives & Library and see what other research tools we have to offer.
Our Promise
Through preserving and sharing stories, we provide a way for people to connect meaningfully with Ohio's past—the places and people who came before us—through historic sites and museums, preservation, interactive exhibits and events, and dynamic resources and research. This experience develops a deep sense of both individual and community identity connecting us to one another then, now, and forever.
Education
Offering on-site and virtual learning programs aligned with Ohio's learning standards.
Preserving Ohio
Preserving historic places, community history and our nation's cultural and historic resources.
Get Involved
Become a donor, member, volunteer, employee or advocate for Ohio's history.
Upcoming Events
View as Calendar
1-3 of 58
Back1(current)23456Next
Presidential History Book Club – March 2025
March 26, 2025
Hayes Presidential Library & Museums, Fremont
All are invited to read and discuss books about the American presidency at this free book club. This month, the club is reading “A Wicked War: Polk, Clay, Lincoln, and the 1846 U.S. Invasion of Mexico” by Amy S. Greenburg. This is a continuation of the February discussion. This event will take place in person […]
Ohio Rivers: Stories of Empire and Industry
March 27, 2025
Ohio History Center, Columbus
Famous for fields and factories, Ohio is also a land of rivers. Using a series of historical maps and images, this talk will describe how Ohio rivers inspired imperial imaginations and built industrial wealth. The story bends through the twentieth century, as intense exploitation of waterways threatened the renewability of the state’s river resources, and […]
Serpent Mound Archaeology Tour
March 28, 2025
Serpent Mound, Peebles
Effective January, Serpent Mound will offer two archaeological tours a month with archaeologist Bill Kennedy on the 2nd and 4th Fridays of each month during the 2025 season. Tours begin at the Serpent Mound Visitor Center at 1:30 p.m. and end at 3 p.m. No reservations are required. Parking is $8/per vehicle. Info: (800).752.2757
1-3 of 58
Back1(current)23456Next
Latest Blog Posts
We offer deeper perspectives across multiple categories, including Natural History, Education & Learning, History, Archaeology, Ohio's Sports and even Event Planning at the Ohio History Center. A sampling of our latest blog posts can be found below.
March 24, 2025
The Archaeology Catalogs: From the Beginning
Catalogs are essential records of objects in museum and library collections. Catalog numbers document objects in collections and the data associated with them, such as where they came from and what material they’re made of. Museum curators and collections staff maintain catalogs to help people access and use collections. In the past, catalogs were often […]
March 24, 2025
Collections Spotlight: M.C. Lilley & Henry Taylor
Learn more about M.C. Lilley and Henry Clay Taylor through a frock coat in the history collections of the Ohio History Connection.
March 24, 2025
Mrs. Husband’s Name: Identifying Women in the Columbus Citizen-Journal Photograph Collection
Archives Services Intern Taylor Grzesiek researches women formerly identified only by their spouse's surnames.
March 21, 2025
Ohio History Connection Mourns Passing of Former Board President Thomas V. Chema
We were saddened to learn of the passing of Thomas V. Chema over the weekend. Chema, of Westlake, led the Ohio History Connection Board of Trustees as its President from 2018 to 2022. Overall, he served on the board from 2004 to 2023. “One of the many accomplishments of Tom‘s career was to have a […]
March 17, 2025
Works by Lilly Martin Spencer at the Ohio History Connection, Reproduced on Carte de Visite Photographs
Learn how works by Ohio artist Lilly Martin Spencer gained popularity when reproduced as carte de visite photographs.
March 6, 2025
Collections Spotlight: Photographs from the Columbus Citizen-Journal
The newspaper's photograph collection gets a 2025 update, preserving more than 24,000 images and making them easier to access.
March 5, 2025
Itacolumite, the “Gumby Stone”!
By Dave Dyer, Curator Natural History
February 18, 2025
A Taste of Ohio’s Past
February 18, 2025
Collections Spotlight: Planned Parenthood of Central Ohio Records, 1932-2017
By Katie Ruffing, Archives Services Intern My name is Katie Ruffing (she/her), and I'm currently an Archives Services intern at the Ohio History Connection. One of the significant projects I've enjoyed working on is the addendum to MSS 505 AV, the archival records of Planned Parenthood of Central Ohio. An archival addendum refers to additional […]
February 11, 2025
Behind the Scenes: The Winter Work at Historic Sites
Most Ohio History Connection sites are open year-round, but we have a few that close for the winter. However, that doesn’t mean nothing is happening at these sites! “The offseason is actually our busiest season,” explains Tanner Immel, site manager of Schoenbrunn Village in New Philadelphia. With 18 cabins to care for, as […]
Browse all Blog Posts
Sign-Up for our eNewsletter!
"(Required)" indicates required fields
Email Address*(Required)
First Name*(Required)Last Name*(Required)ZIP** All fields are required.This field is hidden when viewing the formAddress
ZIP:
Consent(Required) I agree to be added to the Ohio History Connection eNewsletter list.(Required)
Δ
Visit
Events & Experiences
Education
Preserving Ohio
Get Involved
Research
About Us
Donate
Membership
Jobs
Volunteer or Intern
Request a Speaker
800 E. 17th Ave., Columbus, OH 43211
614.297.2300
800.686.6124
Contact Us
© 2025 Ohio History Connection All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy