Landscape of Newfoundland and Labrador
Toggle navigation
Newfoundland and Labrador Heritage
Browsing Options
By Theme
By Subject
By Time Period
By Location
Browsing Options
By Theme
By Subject
By Time Period
By Location
Home
Mission Statement
Resources
Map Index
Books and Documents
Ask a NL Question
Glossary
How to Cite NL Heritage Website
Courses
Grade 8
Grade 11
____________
Archival Mysteries
Alien Enemies, 1914-1918
Icefields Disaster
Partnered Projects
Colony of Avalon
Let's Teach About Women
Silk Robes and Sou'westers
First World War
Première Guerre mondiale
DNE Word Form Database
Dialect Atlas of NL
Partners List from Old Site
Dictionary of Newfoundland English
Search
Preface
Introduction
Bibliography
Works Cited
Abbreviations
First Edition Corrections
Second Edition Preface
Bibliography (supplement)
Works Cited (supplement)
Abbreviations (supplement)
A-Z Index
____________
DNE Word Form Database
Dialect Atlas of NL
Videos
Documentary Video Series (English)
Une série de documentaires (en français)
Arts Videos
Archival Videos
Images
Subject
Location
Type
Period
Site Map
Table of Contents
The Arts
Economy
En français
Exploration and Settlement
Government and Politics
Indigenous Peoples
Natural Environment
Society and Culture
First World War
____________
Archives and Special Collections
Ferryland and the Colony of Avalon
Government House
Mount Pearl Junior High School
Registered Heritage Structures
Stephenville Integrated High School Project
Women's History Group Walking Tour
Twitter
Facebook
Landscape
(Related Articles: For other Landscape related articles view the Natural Environment Table of Contents.)
The landscape of Newfoundland and Labrador has had a remarkable geological history, formed over many millions of years by continental collision, mountain-building, volcanoes, oceans,  rivers and ice sheets. The physical environment that has developed as a result is itself an important part of the region's heritage.
Glacial landscape, Torngat Mountains, northern Labrador
The Torngat Mountains of northern Labrador contain some of the finest examples of alpine glacial landforms in Canada.
©1998, Geological Survey of Canada, Natural Resources Canada.
The Strait of Belle Isle divides the province into its two geographical components, Labrador and the island of Newfoundland, and closely approximates a division of great geological significance. Labrador is the easternmost part of the Canadian Shield, a vast area made up mostly of  plutonic and  metamorphic rocks, some of which are the oldest known on Earth.
Geological Zones of Newfoundland and Labrador
Illustration by Duleepa Wijayawardhana, ©1998.
Newfoundland represents the northeasternmost extension of the Appalachian mountain system in North America, and is much younger than Labrador. It formed from parts of three areas of the world brought together about 400 million years ago by continental drift - the constant movement of  lithospheric plates on the Earth's surface. Central Newfoundland is the remains of an ocean floor that lay between North America and Africa about 500 million years ago. The island's west coast is part of the ancient margin of North America. The east coast was once part of  southwestern Europe or North Africa. When the continental plates again separated (which led to the formation of the Atlantic Ocean basin) the split occurred east of where they had collided and this left a piece of the eastern plate attached to North America.
Main Topsail hill, Central Newfoundland
Called "tolts" in Newfoundland, these solitary rock knobs are the remnants of a former higher landscape which has all but since disappeared due to erosion.
©1998, Geological Survey of Canada, Natural Resources Canada.
The last 200 million years of Earth history in Newfoundland and Labrador have been dominated by erosion. For most of that time, rivers stripped rock from the land surface, carrying it to the oceans to be deposited offshore. Long periods of  fluvial erosion led to the development of extensive plains, the remnants of which are the upland surfaces of the province.
For the last 2 million years, during the Ice Age, great ice sheets advanced and retreated across Newfoundland and Labrador many times. At the last glacial maximum, 18,000 years ago, the Laurentide Ice Sheet covered most of Canada including Labrador. The tip of the Northern Peninsula was the only part of Newfoundland overrun by the Laurentide Ice Sheet; the rest of the island was covered by its own independent ice cap which originated on uplands and spread out towards the coast.
Glaciers had an enormous effect on the landscape, smoothing and polishing wide areas, eroding lake basins, and carving deep valleys through mountains. Along the coast, these valleys were later flooded by the sea, creating deep fjords.
A fjord valley at Ten Mile Pond, Gros Morne National Park
Glaciers carved this deep valley through the Long Range Mountains in Western Newfoundland.
Reproduced by permission of Wendy Churchill. Photo ©1990.
As climate warmed, the ice retreated inland, leaving behind a more  subdued landscape, in places covered by till or gravel washed out of the melting glaciers.
Sea level around the coast of Newfoundland and Labrador changed considerably as a result of the last glaciation. Ice sheets of great weight pushed land areas downward, and squeezed them outwards beyond the ice margin. As the ice melted, the land rebounded, and material which had been displaced gradually returned to its original position. Evidence of this process can be seen in most areas of the province. Beaches, deltas, and the remains of marine  fauna can be found tens to hundreds of metres above the present level.
Emerged sea stack and wave-cut platform, Western Newfoundland.
Wave action about 13,000 years ago produced this sea stack and rock platform.
© 1998, Geological Survey of Canada, Natural Resources Canada.
The coast of Labrador continues to rise as the land rebounds, but much of the Newfoundland coast is sinking as displaced material is returned and the land settles. Submerged shorelines, inland migration of beaches and drowned forests are common indicators of this rising sea level around the coast.
Version française
© 1997, Trevor Bell and David Liverman
Related Articles:
Geological Landscape
The Newfoundland Story
For other Landscape related articles view the Natural Environment Table of Contents.
Related Subjects
Geography Geology
Share and print this article:
Print this Article
Contact | © Copyright 1997 – 2025 Newfoundland and Labrador Heritage Web Site, unless otherwise stated.