Quotes by Alphabetical order: S — Page #12
Login
The STANDS4 Network
Abbreviations.com
Anagrams.net
Biographies.net
Calculators.net
Convert.net
Definitions.net
Grammar.com
Literature.com
Lyrics.com
Phrases.com
Poetry.com
Quotes.net
References.net
Rhymes.com
Scripts.com
Symbols.com
Synonyms.com
USZip.com
In Literary QuotesIn Movie QuotesIn TV Shows
#ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ  Random New Quotes
Literary
Movies
TV Shows
Found 3,197 quotes starting with S: Page #12
Skip to:SSASBSC - SESF - SHSI - SKSL - SNSO - SQSR - STSU - SWSX - SZ
Science when well-digested is nothing but good sense and reason.– StanilausRate it:Science will always give answer to the first question but refuses to the last one.– Vikrant ParsaiRate it:Science will be completely separated from religion on the day that scientists will invent their own calendar(s).– Mwanandeke KindemboRate it:Science without math is religion– Eric T. PaulsenRate it:Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.– Albert EinsteinRate it:Science without religion is lame. Religion without science is blind.– Albert EinsteinRate it:Science would be ruined if (like sports) it were to put competition above everything else, and if it were to clarify the rules of competition by withdrawing entirely into narrowly defined specialties. The rare scholars who are nomads-by-choice are essential to the intellectual welfare of the settled disciplines.– Benoit MandelbrotRate it:Science, which cuts its way through the muddy pond of daily life without mingling with it, casts its wealth to right and left, but the puny boatmen do not know how to fish for it.– Alexander HerzenRate it:Scientific experiences and practices can easily lead to spirituality, rather than trying to memorize more facts.– Mwanandeke KindemboRate it:Scientifically speaking, if my body is not the same as it was yesterday, then who am I?– Mwanandeke KindemboRate it:Scientists are explorers. Philosophers are contemplators.– Prof.Salam Al ShereidaRate it:Scientists are peeping toms at the keyhole of eternity.– Arthur KoestlerRate it:Scientists are the easiest to fool. They think in straight, predictable, directable, and therefore misdirectable, lines. The only world they know is the one where everything has a logical explanation and things are what they appear to be. Children and conjurors - they terrify me. Scientists are no problem against them I feel quite confident.– James P. HoganRate it:Scientists are the easiest to fool. They think in straight, predictable, directable, and therefore misdirectable, lines. The only world they know is the one where everything has a logical explanation and things are what they appear to be. Children and conjurors--they terrify me. Scientists are no problem; against them I feel quite confident.– Zambendorf, _Code of the Lifemaker_ by James P. HoganRate it:Scorching my seared heart with a pain, not hell shall make me fear again.– Edgar Allan Poe, Tamerlane, Part IIRate it:Scoring high marks in examination is not an indication of having brilliant brain but of mugging up power– Anuj SomanyRate it:Scott, please take your knee off my neck.– Jonathan WackrowRate it:Scoundrels spread lies on corona several times through all media channels , hired movie stars to do acting of hospitalization, liars and criminals were planted as experts to further misadvise, created memes & posters to cleverly outspread rumors, even caller tune of corona was made  . The aim was to speak lies these many times from all corners that people start fearing, believing and talking that corona is a virus and then any illness was given the name corona to loot the patients and sell their vaccination to do anything they like with the population.– Pankas SamadRate it:Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.– American ProverbRate it:Scratch yourself with your own nails; always do your own business, and when you intend asking for a service, go to a person who can appreciate your merit.– Arabic ProverbRate it:Scratches inside the eye can be covered by a specs but Scratches inside our heart cannot be covered by anything– Tittu M JohnRate it:Screenwriters? Schmucks with Underwoods.– Jack WarnerRate it:Screw ambiguity. Perversion and corruption masquerade as ambiguity. I don't trust ambiguity.– John WayneRate it:Screw me once, shame on you, screw me twice shame on me. Screw me three times...can I at least get a reach around?– Tom SouthworthRate it:
1«78910111213141516»134ALL
1«910111213»134ALL
Discuss these letter quotes with the community:
https://www.quotes.net/quotes/S/12
0 Comments
0:00
0:00
clear
Notify me of new comments via email.
Publish
×Close
Report Comment
We're doing our best to make sure our content is useful, accurate and safe.If by any chance you spot an inappropriate comment while navigating through our website please use this form to let us know, and we'll take care of it shortly.
Cancel
Report
×Close
Attachment
Close
×
You need to be logged in to favorite.
or fill the form below
Create a new account
Your name:*Required
Your email address:*Required
Pick a user name:*Required
Join
Log In
Username:*Required
Password:*Required
Log In
Forgot your password?   Retrieve it
Quote of the Day
Today's Quote | Archive
Would you like us to send you a FREE inspiring quote delivered to your inbox daily?
Please enter your email address:
Submit
We need you!
Help build the largest human-edited quotes collection on the web!
Add a Quote
Close
The Web's Largest Resource for
Famous Quotes & Sayings
A Member Of The STANDS4 Network
Browse Quotes.net
#ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ  Random New Quotes
Quiz
Are you a quotes master?
»
Who said: "When you have a dream, you've got to grab it and never let it go."
A
Abraham Lincoln
B
Carol Burnett
C
C. S. Lewis
D
Tobias Wolff
Company
Home
About
News
Press
Awards
Testimonials
Editorial
Login
Add a New Quote
Become a Member
Meet the Members
Recently Added
Activity Log
Most Popular
Famous Quotes
Movie Quotes
Services
Tools
Your Collection
Tell a Friend
Bookmark Us
Quotes API
Quote of the Day
Citizen Quotes
Promote
Articles
Legal & Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Advertise
Affiliate Program
Get the Apps:
The STANDS4 Network
Abbreviations
Anagrams
Biographies
Calculators
Conversions
Definitions
Grammar
Literature
Lyrics
Phrases
Poetry
Quotes
References
Rhymes
Scripts
Symbols
Synonyms
Zip Codes
© 2001-2025 STANDS4 LLC.All rights reserved.