Lawn sprinkler system service, Washington, DC Metro Area - Interstate Irrigation and Lighting - Metro Area landscape, lighting, and irrigation sprinkler system contractor.  Professionally installed automatic irrigation system, automatic lawn watering system, underground sprinkler system - top rated, best, good, local
Washington DC Landscape Irrigation
and Lighting Professionals!
Approved Contractor for Rainbird, Toro, Hunter and Weathermatic
CALL US (703) 250-8830 • (301) 469-7859
Home
Outdoor Lighting
Winterization
Appointment Set Up
CALL US NOW
(703) 250-8830
(301) 469-7859
Interstate Irrigation is proud to be an Accredited
Better Business Bureau
Business.
CLICK HERE for our report.
Welcome to Interstate Irrigation & Lighting
We are the premiere landscape and lighting company serving Washington DC. Our trained professionals have been providing quality lawn sprinkler service for residents in the area for the last 20 years.
Tired of wasting your time and money? Have you ever considered an in-ground sprinkler system?
Serving Washington DC and Montgomery County including Adams Morgan, Capitol Hill, Chevy Chase, Cleveland Park, Columbia Heights, Downtown, Dupont Circle,
Foggy Bottom, Georgetown, Logan Circle, Mount Pleasant,
Woodley Park, Bethesda, Potomac,  Rockville and Aspen Hill. Now serving Montgomery County in Maryland.
Visit Our Home Site »
Interstate Irrigation offers the best pricing and service available.
Call (703) 250-8830 for a free,
no obligation estimate.
To set up an appointment online,
Click Here.
With over 20 years experience in the business, let us show you how you can:
Save Time and Money
Protect your Landscaping Investment
Conserve Your Water Resources
Add Beauty, Value and Safety to your
home
When we install systems, we'll teach you how to use them to
achieve the best results.
Maintenance Agreements Available for
any System
Our mission is to provide superior irrigation installation
and maintenance services and expertise to our customers in
Washington DC. At Interstate Irrigation, we
place the customer first by bringing quality solutions to address
our clients' current and future needs. We add value by establishing
best practices, detailed project management systems, training
and retaining quality personnel, and adhering to a policy of
continuous quality personnel, and adhering to a policy of continuous
quality improvement. Our vision is to be the preferred contractor
of choice for Irrigation and Lighting needs in Washington DC
and surrounding areas.
Irrigation Services
- Underground Irrigation Systems in Washington DC
We provide Certified Designers
Professional
Installation of irrigation systems
Maintenance
of Irrigation Systems
Commercial, Institutional,
Athletic fields, Residential
Sprinkler System Design & Installation Professionals
Interstate Enterprises, Inc. has been competing in the residential,
commercial, and governmental arena in Northern Virginia, Washington
DC and suburban Maryland since 1986. Today, Interstate is fully
bondable and possesses the lines of credit necessary for financing
large projects. Our continued track record of providing quality
services, competitive pricing, and quick responsiveness has led
to continuing business growth.
Lawn sprinkler service, Washington, DC area - Interstate Irrigation and Lighting - Metro Area landscape, lighting, and irrigation sprinkler system contractor. Approved Contractor for Rainbird, Toro, Hunter and Weathermatic - Professionally installed automatic irrigation system, low voltage lighting, custom outdoor lighting, automatic lawn watering system, underground sprinkler system, professional night lighting - We can service all your irrigation system installation needs in Washington Metro Area including, Adams Morgan, Capitol Hill, Chevy Chase DC, Cleveland Park, Columbia Heights, Downtown, Dupont Circle, Foggy Bottom, Georgetown, Logan Circle, Mount Pleasant, Woodley Park, Bethesda, Potomac, Rockville and Aspen Hill - top rated, best, good, local
3169 Spring Street Fairfax VA 22031
| Phone: (703) 250-8830 • (301) 469-7859
©2015
CWR0616