Large Scale Emigration to Australia after 1832
Search just our
sites by using our customised search engine
Unique
Cottages | Electric
Scotland's Classified Directory
Large
Scale Emigration to Australia after 1832
‘Australian Emigration—Fort William’
After some months of expectation and anxiety, Dr.
Boyter, the Government emigration agent for Australia, arrived at Fort
William on x 8th current. The news of his arrival, like the fiery
cross of old, soon spread through every glen of the district, and at
an early hour on Monday, thousands of enterprising Gaels might be seen
ranked around the Caledonian Hotel, anxious to quit the land of their
forefathers and to go and possess the unbounded pastures of Australia.
. . . While
we regret that so many active men should feel it necessary to leave
their own country, the Highlands will be considerably relieved of its
over-plus population.
Inverness Courier,
30 May 1838
By 1832 Scotland
had entered the most important phase of its Industrial Revolution, and
the whole economy was changing rapidly as a result of the wholesale
adoption by the iron-masters of the ‘hot-blast’ technique of
smelting. Perfected by James B. Neilson in 1828, it was widely applied
in the early 1830s, and the process gave the country a new and decisive
advantage in the production of pig-iron. By 1835 there were twenty-nine
blast furnaces in Scotland, and in 1839 the
number had increased to fifty-four. This new iron and coal development
overshadowed all other economic projects in Scotland, for, apart from
the large share of the British home market secured by cheap Scottish
iron, priced about ten shillings a ton below its rivals for nearly forty
years, there were extensive foreign markets. By the late 1840s the
United States alone was taking no less than 14 per
cent. of the Scottish pig-iron output—over 60 per cent. of the total
amount of the Scottish export of this commodity—and over nine tenths
of the total British pig-iron export was from Scotland.
Cheap iron made rapid
industrialization possible, and between 1832 and 1846 a network of
railways was constructed, linking the main centres of population, and
serving coal-mines and iron works and connecting them with the ports.
Linen and cotton mills continued to thrive and increase in size and
number as machinery and coal-fuel became cheaper and more readily
available. The experimental stages of shipbuilding in iron were reached,
and new industries like boiler-making grew up in the iron-producing
districts.
In the fourteen years
between 1832 and 1846 Scotland was swept by a surge of commercial and
industrial activity that made the bold company promotions of 1822 and
1824—5, and the founding of new factories in the previous decade, seem
comparatively insignificant. This ‘coal and iron’ phase of
development came much later in Scotland than in England, but when it did
come it was accompanied by improved techniques that caused it to burst
with all the greater impact on the still largely agricultural society in
which it was set. Every aspect of Scottish life, and every district,
however remote, was affected by the coming of this ‘second stage of
the Industrial Revolution’, and it was also to have important
repercussions on the Scottish attitude to, and connexion with,
Australia. It was in the 1830s, for instance, that leading iron-works
like the Carron Company and the Shotts Iron Company were to expand their
business with the Australian colonies, their exports of both pig-iron
and manufactured goods. It was in the mid 1830s, too, that the
large-scale import of Australian wool began, to supply the rapidly
expanding woollen mills of the Border districts.
Of even greater
importance for Australia than the expansion of mutual trade were the
rapid accumulation of capital in the hands of Scottish investors—profits,
for reinvestment, drawn from the new industries and from ‘improved’
agriculture—and the movement of population within Scotland as a result
of industrialization, agricultural improvements, Highland destitution,
and the periodic slumps to which the new industrial economy was liable.
The first of these features, the accumulation of capital and the
propensity for overseas investment among Scottish ‘capitalists’,
large and small, was to lead to the foundation of the second group of
Scottish-based commercial ventures in Australia in Aberdeen in 1839—40.
The effects of industrialization, destitution, and commercial
depressions in promoting emigration to Australia were obvious from the
early 1830s, and since, as in 1820-2, the commercial ventures tended to
follow the line of an emigration flow, the motivation and quality of the
Scottish emigration to Australia in this second phase must first be
examined.
The most remarkable
feature of the emigration was its widespread nature. No corner of
Scotland was unaffected by it. In the 1820s, the south-east (Edinburgh,
Leith, Fife, the Lothians, and the Borders) had supplied the bulk of the
emigrants, who were chiefly drawn from the middle classes. In 1830s and
1840s the emigration was largely working-class in character, and was
drawn from all over the country. Areas like the south-west (Ayrshire,
Dumfriesshire, Wigtownshire, Renfrewshire), the north-east (Aberdeenshire,
Kincardine, Banffshire, Moray, Nairn), the central and western Highlands
(Inverness-shire, Ross, Sutherland, Perthshire, Argyll), and even Orkney
and Shetland, which had all figured to only a slight extent in the
emigration of 1815—33, were now well represented. The availability of
free or assisted passages to Australia after 1832 was partly
responsible, but the wholesale, widespread nature of the emigration can
only be explained by the changes that were convulsing the country,
breaking down the old pattern of town and rural life. This was a time
when emigration generally, to North America as well as Australia, was
increasing at a phenomenal rate.
The sheer growth of the
population was a striking feature of the time. At no period, before or
since, has the increase been more marked. In 1836 the population
totalled 2,315,926. By 1847 it had grown to 3,718,316, a figure reached
through large-scale Irish immigration as well as by natural increase. In
the Highlands the increase was especially problematical, for the means
of subsistence were actually decreasing, as a result of the ‘clearances’
of subsistence-farming crofts for sheep-runs, the decline of the
kelp-burning industry, and the failure of the fisheries. After 1836,
when economic conditions all over the country worsened, the Highlands
were especially hard-hit, and it was partly due to this temporary
economic set-back in the late 1830s and early 1840s that the flow of
Scottish emigration to Australia from both the Highland and Lowland
areas reached an unprecedented level.
In itself the depression
would not have been sufficient to secure this result, which was realized
only because the ‘Government’ and the later ‘Colonial’ bounty
systems came into effect, for this was to be largely a working-class
emigration, and the considerable proportion of the emigrants who came
from the Highlands and islands included many who were near to complete
destitution. While many influences and ideas led to the creation of the
bounty systems, deriving their funds from the sale of Crown lands, it is
interesting to note that in 1833 John Galt, the Scottish writer and
colonizer, claimed to have proposed such a scheme in the 1820s as an
alternative to Wilmot Horton’s scheme for the voluntary mortgage of
their rates by parishes to raise funds for the purpose.
The British Government’s
system for assisted female emigration to New South Wales was instituted
in September 1831 by Lord Goderich, and was soon extended to mechanics.
Between 1832 and 1836 sixteen entire shiploads of emigrants, most of
them women, were dispatched from English and Irish ports, and in
addition several hundreds of young women went out under the scheme in
vessels other than those chartered by the London Emigration Committee. A
few in this latter category sailed from Leith, but this early phase of
the bounty emigration was not marked by any considerable efflux of
assisted emigrants from Scotland. This was to come only in 1837, when
the additional scheme devised in 1835 by the Government of New South
Wales, to encourage the immigration of skilled agricultural workers as
well as unmarried women and mechanics, came into operation. From 1837
this colonial bounty system was to supplement the reformed government
system introduced in 1834 and operated by T. F. Eliot as Agent-General
for Emigration.
Both assisted emigration
and unassisted private emigration increased steadily from 1836 onwards,
reaching a peak in 1839— 40, when Scotland as a whole, and the
north-east in particular, experienced its second surge of enthusiasm for
the Australian colonies as a field for emigration and investment. The
increase in the rate of emigration was phenomenally swift, for in 1833
only 253 emigrants sailed for Australia from Scottish ports (as against
5,592 for the North American colonies, and 1,953 for the United States).
It is interesting to note that in this year Scots comprised a fifth of
the total British emigration to the Canadas and the Maritime Provinces—the
traditional Scottish emigration field by this time. In the same year,
they made up only between one-fifteenth and one-sixteenth of the total
of British emigrants to Australia. This was the time, between 1832 and
1835, when John Broadfoot of Leith was slashing the rates of freight and
passage money to Australia for the ships he handled, and sending off
emigrant ships to Canada. By 1834 the number of persons leaving Scotland
for Australia had fallen even lower, to 134 (as compared with 4,954 to
the North American colonies, and 2,880 to the United States). In 1836
the numbers fell lower still. From all Scottish ports in that year, the
total number of emigrants sailing for Australia was only 114.
The turning-point came in
1837, when 1,254 persons left Scottish ports for Australia, as against
2,391 for the American colonies, and 1,130 for the United States. Since
these last figures show a decline of some 1,500 from the numbers leaving
Scotland for North America in 1836, it seems safe to assume that the two
bounty systems, in full operation by this time, were diverting at least
a proportion of intending emigrants towards Australia, emigrants who
would otherwise have swelled the exodus to Canada and the United States.
The political disturbances in the Canadas,
and the financial panic in the United States, were probably also
responsible for this.
In 1838 the flow to
Australia increased, and no fewer than nine ships with 2,161 government
bounty emigrants cleared from Scottish ports. In addition, 1,054 ‘private’
bounty emigrants and unassisted emigrants took passage from Scotland,
making a total of 3,215 for the year. In 1839, the total number
embarking in Scotland was 2,238—a seventh of the total number
embarking in Britain for all the Australian settlements, including Van
Diemen’s Land, Port Philip, South Australia, and Western Australia.
Until 1843, when bounty emigration was suspended owing to the economic
crisis in the Australian colonies, the Scottish emigration continued on
a considerable scale. In 1840 over 1,600 assisted emigrants went out,
and in 1841, a record year, no fewer than 4,376 assisted emigrants
sailed from Leith, Dundee, and Greenock and its outports. In that year
began the massive influx of Irish bounty emigrants (13,704) that lowered
the proportion of Scots among the emigrants. Between 1842 and 1847 there
were only 907 assisted emigrants from Scotland to New South Wales, as
against 4,197 English and 6,367 Irish. By 1846, partly as a result of
the improvement in business conditions in Scotland and the fillip given
to the economy by large-scale railway building, emigration to all ‘fields’
had slackened considerably, and only 3 emigrants to the Australian
colonies are recorded for that year, as against 2,700 to the North
American colonies, and 60 to the United States. In 1848 the Land Board
reported that it had experienced great difficulty in selecting suitable
emigrants for Australia in both England and Scotland because of the
demand for labour for railway construction.
The beginning of bounty
emigration through the
Scottish outports, 1832—1837
In the earlier part
of the period, in the six years from 1832 to 1837 inclusive, Scots
emigrants of all categories to Australia made up about a tenth of the
British total (2,052 as against 20,664). The proportion of bounty
emigrants among the Scots during this period is extremely difficult to
assess, for while the Colonial Office records show that the government
bounty system did not come fully into operation in Scotland on a large
scale until 1837, involving the selection and dispatch of shiploads of
people, some casual and small-scale bounty emigration was undoubtedly
organized by shipowners and shipbrokers before that date. In February
1835 John Broadfoot, who obviously regarded himself as the doyen of the
Scottish—Australian trade (‘for the last fifteen years particularly
connected with the trade carried on between the Port of Leith and the
colonies of New South Wales and Van Diemen’s Land’), petitioned Lord
Aberdeen for restoration of the bounty to unmarried women proceeding
direct from Scotland to the colonies, and stated that he had been ‘agent
for several vessels employed in carrying out male and female emigrant
settlers to these colonies from Leith—but more especially in the year
1832 and in the first three months of 1833 when the Government aid and
bounty was extended to married mechanics accompanied by their wives and
families and to respectable unmarried females’.
The bounty for the
unmarried women had been withdrawn from persons sailing direct from
Scotland early in 1834, according to Broadfoot, and restricted to those
sailing from London and selected by the Emigration Committee there.
Obviously Broadfoot had been acting as a bounty agent in 1832 and the
first half of 1833, but no record survives of how many bounties he
arranged. The London Emigration Committee was decidedly opposed to
Broadfoot’s claims for a share in the Female Emigration Fund, and for
extension of the new workers’ bounty system to Leith, but they were
prepared by July 1835 to make some concessions. W. Mean, representing
the Leith interests, described to Robert Hay at the Colonial Office his
‘long conversations’ with Marshall and Forster, the ruling members
of the Committee, and the conclusions they had reached, that ‘our
views will be allowed without the appointment of a committee at Leith’.
With the bounty system
centralized in London and confined to that port, it was obvious to the
Leith shipping interest that they would not secure what they considered
their fair share of the bounty traffic, and when John Broadfoot took up
the matter he brought out the point that the restriction was checking
Scottish emigration. ‘So long as the Government bounty is restricted
to the Port of London,’ he wrote, ‘very few Scotch females will
venture so far from home to embark on so long a voyage amongst
strangers, and, consequently, these colonies will continue to be
deprived of their valuable services.’ Broadfoot wrote that he had
received numerous applications from suitable women—’Scotch females.
. . of unblemished moral character, experienced as dairy and household
servants who would gladly avail themselves of the Government’s bounty
to proceed there, could it be procured for them when embarking by a ship
from the Port of Leith, when, in almost every case, they would be
accompanied by relatives, friends or acquaintances’.
To the Scottish shipping
interest, especially in the east coast ports, the bounty system
certainly opened up pleasing prospects of employment for vessels, and,
as James Ballingall of Kirkcaldy observed in a letter to the Secretary
of State for the Colonies, ‘the mercantile community of this quarter
are taking a deep interest in the subject’. Shipowners like James
Thoms of Dundee were writing in to Robert Hay at the Colonial Office to
ascertain the position regarding bounties, and attesting to the
seaworthiness of the vessels which they intended to send out.
They included several
shipping firms which had begun to participate in the Australian trade in
the keenly competitive conditions of the late 1820s. Foremost among them
were George Young and Co. and George Aitchison and Co., both of Leith.
The firm of Buchanan and Davis also sent out ships from Leith, the three
firms maintaining the primacy of the port in the Australian trade. A.
Alexander and Co. of Grangemouth also used the port of Leith, as did
William Henderson and Co., a Glasgow and Bo’ness concern. Glasgow and
Greenock also participated, and the firms of Russell and Company,
Campbell and Anderson, J. Carmichael and A. Balantine, and McAusland and
Hamilton all sent out ships in the 1830s. By this time the Border
woollen manufacturers required to import four-fifths of their wool, and
most of this came from Australia, so that return freights no longer
presented a problem.
The pressure of the
shipping interest for extension of the bounty system to Leith and to
Scotland generally was accompanied in 1835 by evidences of public
interest from other east coast centres. From Aberdeen John Matheson, a
bookseller and publisher who was establishing an ‘emigration
information depot’, wrote to the Colonial Office asking for data
concerning the Australian colonies for an Emigrant’s Guide he
was preparing. From Invergordon, further north, A. Mackay, a ‘commercial
agent’, wrote asking for information and circulars on emigration to
Van Diemen’s Land for the large numbers of interested parties in his
district. Influential men like Ludovick Stewart, a retired army field
officer and a local magistrate in Banffshire, also wrote in 1835 urging
the establishment of another emigration agency in the north, at Aberdeen
or Cromarty.
In view of the tendency
of the Emigration Commissioners to work through the London Emigration
Committee and John Marshall’s London shipping clique in those years,
and to restrict the activities of others by withdrawing the bounty
privilege from outports, as stated by Broadfoot, it seems safe to assume
that only a small proportion of the 2,052 persons who sailed from
Scotland in the six years from 1832 to 1837 were bounty emigrants. Even
a quarter of this number may be too high an estimate.
In his Sydney newspaper,
the Colonist, in January and February 1835, John Dunmore Lang
made a bitter attack on John Marshall and the London Emigration
Committee, charging them with scouring the streets of London so as to
fill their vessels, and implying that Scottish emigration was not being
encouraged as it should. This provoked an angry response from Marshall
in the form of a pamphlet, stating that ‘a greater proportionate
disposition to emigrate does not exist in Scotland than in other parts
of the United Kingdom’, and denying that the provision of vessels
sailing direct from Scottish ports would encourage bounty emigration
from that country.’ Marshall pointed out that the Committee had
recently advertised a ship to sail from either Leith or the Clyde,
provided that sufficient emigrants came forward, and that the response
was so poor that the scheme was abandoned. Lang’s ‘assertions as to
Scotland furnishing emigrants at all proportionate to the demand for
labour in Australia, or in greater relative numbers than any other parts
of the empire, or that equal facilities are not afforded to those who
wish to go out from thence’ were sharply denied. In this controversy
it appears that Lang, typically, overstated the case for direct sailings
from Scotland, and went too far in his personal attack on Marshall. Yet
Broadfoot’s petition shows that the grievance about direct sailings
was a real one, and the statements in Marshall’s Refutation should
probably be treated with as much reserve as Lang’s fulminations
against Marshall and his exaggeration of the willingness of Scots
working-class people to go out to Australia.
Broadfoot’s
representation to the Colonial Office for the renewal of female bounty
emigration at Leith was not, apparently, successful, for on 30 June 1835
a Colonial Office return from Leith for the quarter ending on that date
stated that the Perthshire, Broadfoot’s ship, had sailed for
Van Diemen’s Land, and that nineteen women had been sent on from Leith
to London to join the Canton for Sydney. Similarly, in September
1835 twenty-seven women were ‘forwarded’ to London to join the Boadicea
for Hobart. Yet some slight measure of extension was won at this
time, for in July the Charles Kerr had sailed from Leith to Van
Diemen’s Land with fifteen women bounty emigrants.
Until the beginning of
large-scale bounty emigration to Australia in 1837, Leith remained the
chief Scottish port of embarkation. In 1833, 213 persons sailed from
Leith and 40 from Greenock. There were no Australian emigrant sailings
from the other Scottish ports, from which the flow to North America went
on steadily (5,592 in that year from all Scottish ports). In 1834 the
number embarking at Leith was 109, with 13 from Greenock and 12 from
Port Glasgow, and in 1836 78 emigrants took ship there, as against 24
from Greenock and 12 from Dundee. These were the lowest annual figures
for the decade of the 1830s.
The bounty emigration
from Scotland, 1837—1842
Between 1837 and 1846
assisted emigrants, largely working-class people, greatly outnumbered
the unassisted emigrants. The Scottish emigration for the ten years
numbered about 12,000 persons, of whom about 10,000 were brought out
under either the government or colonial bounty systems, so that the
proportion of Scots among the incomers rose to about a sixth, as against
a tenth in the six years before 1838. For the first time, there was a
considerable influx of working-class Scots.
In September 1832 T. F.
Eliot, who had been secretary to the Emigration Commissioners during
their tenure of office in 1831—2, was appointed to the Colonial Office
to promote and extend bounty emigration. Eliot set about bringing
Scotland fully within the bounty scheme by establishing agencies there,
at Leith and Greenock. Yet until 1837, when Eliot was appointed
Agent-General for Emigration, the Emigration Committee, as noted above,
was dominated by London shipowners and shipbrokers, who were able to use
the bounty system for their own benefit, and they obstructed the
extension of large-scale emigration arrangements to the Scottish ports.
On Eliot’s appointment as Agent-General the London Committee was wound
up, and only then did large-scale operations commence in Scotland.
By this time the need for
such operations in Scotland had become acute, and the political changes
of 1832 had ensured that no such vested interest as that of John
Marshall and his associates could for long monopolize a public fund.
When John Broadfoot penned his petition of February 1835 for the
extension of bounty privileges to the port of Leith, he had the support
of the government emigration agent appointed thereby Eliot in 1834,
Lieutenant James R. Forrest, who had agreed that the vessel Broadfoot
proposed to send out with women emigrants should be ‘fitted up and
provisioned under his superintendence’. At Leith Forrest played an
important part in organizing the emigration service that Eliot created
between 1834 and 1837, for until July 1834 Scots wishing to avail
themselves of the bounty had usually to proceed to London, like the six
women who sailed with bounty passages from Gravesend in the Strathfieldtaye
in May 1834, with over 200 other women, English and Irish.
It was in April 1834 that Eliot
had first appointed two government emigration agents in Scotland, at the two
ports from which emigrants principally sailed. Samuel H. Hemmans was posted
at Greenock, and James Forrest at Leith. Both were lieutenants in the Royal
Navy, with considerable dockyard experience, since one of their principal
duties was to survey vessels and certify them as suitable for carrying
emigrants. In February 1836 the service in Scotland was strengthened by the
appointment (by Governor Sir Richard Bourke of New South Wales) of the able
and indefatigable naval surgeon Dr. Boyter as ‘Colonial Emigration Agent’
in Scotland, to operate a new, colonial, bounty scheme, approved by the
authorities in New South Wales in October 1835. By June 1837 these three
capable men had worked out a useful division of labour. Eliot’s agents saw
to the chartering, surveying, and provisioning of the ships and helped with
the embarkation of the emigrants, while Boyter concerned himself with their
selection, travelling thousands of miles over the length and breadth of the
country, and penetrating into districts where travelling conditions were
primitive.
Borer showed remarkable
enthusiasm and energy in his performance of these duties, and the success of
the large-scale Scottish bounty emigration of 1837-4 owed much to his
keenness. In March 1838 Eliot wrote to James Stephen at the Colonial Office
concerning Borer’s work: ‘He is charged with almost the whole detail of
the emigration from Scotland. He has to visit the candidates in their
several districts, to suggest the apportionment of the vessels among the
different parts of the country that may require them, to superintend the
embarkation of each party, and see that there is no apparent defect in the
ship or her supplies.
It was Boyter who planned
the ambitious programme of 1838-9 - the selection of the ports, located
so as to serve the districts concerned, and the allocation of ships to
districts. He also set the objectives to be aimed at in his selections—’shepherds,
farm labourers, country mechanics, cartwrights etc. from Glenmoriston,
Glengarry, Dingwall and the districts of Glenurquhart, the towns of Fort
George, Campbelltown and Inverness’. Obviously, within two years of
his appointment, he had acquired a considerable knowledge of the
Highlands and their people. Because of his special appointment with a
‘roving commission’ by the colonial authorities, and through his
tireless activity and travelling, there was no need for Eliot to
establish British Government agencies in the northern ports of Dundee,
Aberdeen, or Inverness.
In 1837 the bounty system
began to operate effectively in Scotland, and there was a dramatic
increase in the number of emigrants leaving for Australia. When the
system became fully operative in Scotland, in 1837, Leith, with 97
embarking, was overshadowed by Greenock with 830 and Dundee with 327.
This was caused by the dispatch of shiploads of bounty emigrants from
the latter ports, and the same trend continued throughout the peak years
of the bounty emigration, from 1838 to 1841.
Despite these figures,
swollen by the sailings of bounty emigrant ships from Greenock and
Dundee, the evidence of the shipping lists suggests that for intending
settlers paying their own passages Leith remained the chief port of
embarkation, just as it remained the principal trading port for the
Australian colonies.’ It was to lieutenant Forrest at Leith that ‘numerous
enquiries’ came in 1834 regarding land grants to officers and the
prospects of settlers in the new colony of South Australia.2
It was fortunate that
improved facilities for the selection of emigrants were available by
1837, for Highland destitution created a strong urge to emigrate. By
this year, too, the Colonial Office had decided to extend the benefit of
bounty to agricultural labourers and married couples, and the new policy
fitted in well with the desire to emigrate from the Highlands and from
certain Lowland areas where little interest had been shown before in
emigration to Australia.
John Dunmore Lang was
subsequently to claim that it was through his ‘intervention’ while
in Britain in the winter of 1836—7 that the London deputation of the
Highland relief committees had successfully put forward the idea of
directing a large-scale Highland emigration to Australia to Glenelg, the
Secretary of State for the Colonies. It is probable that here again, as
with the Stirling Castle experiment of 1832, Lang’s energy and
determination helped to secure the Highland emigration on the scale on
which it was carried on in 1837-9. He certainly took direct action as
well, for he chartered the barque Portland in Greenock and
returned to the colony with 310 emigrants, a mixture of Highlanders and
Lowland craftsmen and skilled agricultural workers. The information he
gave to the London deputation about conditions in the colony and about
the availability of funds for emigration no doubt prepared it for the
interviews with Glenelg, for the deputation had originally contemplated
Canada as the destination for the destitute Highlanders, and there is no
reason to doubt Lang’s claim that he diverted their attention to
Australia instead. Yet with Eliot's appointment as Agent-General, with
greatly increased powers and with the problem of Highland destitution
becoming more acute, direct emigration from Scotland to Australia on a
large scale would probably have eventuated in any case, without Lang’s
intervention. Eliot’s policy was to conduct emigration ‘without
discrimination against any part of the kingdom’, and, where bounty
emigration to Australia was concerned, to provide government ships in
proportion to population.
Lang was not the only
colonist to urge that Scottish immigrants should be encouraged. James
Macarthur, one of the most prominent and influential men in New South
Wales, regarded the Scots detachment among the first bounty emigrants to
be selected in 1837 as a valuable accession to the colony, and commended
their ‘religious disposition, good sense and orderly habits’.
Macarthur held that too many Irish labourers were being sent out to
Australia, and that Scottish Highlanders would be more likely to ‘furnish
the description of families most urgently required in New South Wales’.
In March 1837 the first
ship sailed with a full complement of emigrants from Scotland under the
government-organized bounty system, as distinct from the shipping out of
bounty emigrants by private individuals under licence. This was the John
Barry, which sailed from Dundee with 323 emigrants selected by Dr.
Boyter, mostly from the Lowlands, and including in their number many
craftsmen, especially masons and joiners, and several engineers,
farmers, and shepherds. In the next three years twenty shiploads were to
be dispatched from Scotland under this system, with more than 5,000
emigrants. The strong Highland element in this emigration is indicated
by the fact that, of the twenty vessels, twelve sailed from ports in the
Highlands and five more from Greenock on the Clyde—a convenient port
of embarkation for people from the Highlands.
It can be assumed that
the bulk of the passengers in the ships from the Highlands were
crofters, with a few shepherds and very few craftsmen among them. Some
were elderly people who were allowed ‘ship-room’ on payment of their
passages by their friends or their landlords. In the absence of detailed
lists, with ages and occupations, it is difficult to assess the exact
composition of the Highland element. Fortunately, one detailed list does
exist in the Port Phillip Immigration Registers for a vessel which
sailed from Greenock, and this, if typical, does give an impression of
the system, in that farm labourers, craftsmen, and women domestic
servants made up the main categories. The total of ninety-four was made
up as follows:
types of emigrants who
went out under the government system. The ship was the David Clarke, which
left Greenock in June 1839 with 125 people from the Highland counties of
Perth, Argyll, and Inverness, and 94 from the Lowlands. The Highland
contingent included 50 children, 16 married women, 10 shepherds, 4 ‘farmers’
(possibly crofters), 11 farm labourers (probably some of them had been
crofters), 17 craftsmen, who mainly came from the Highland ‘fringe’
area of Perthshire, with its country towns, a ‘farm overseer’ from
Argyll, and a ploughman. The Lowlanders in this shipload were probably
typical of those sent out under the government system, in that farm
labourers, craftsmen, and women domestic servants made up the main
categories. The total of ninety-four was made up as follows:-
17 maidservants, 22
married women, 13 farm labourers, 19 children, 4 dairymaids, 2
storekeepers, 1 carpenter, 3 menservants, 2 blacksmiths, 2 tailors, 1
joiner, 2 needlewomen, 2 shepherds, 1 farm overseers and 3 cartwrights.
The David Clarke list
is, in fact, very similar to the lists of many of the vessels sent out
by private operators under the colonial system in the next few years.
There are the same features marking the Scottish emigration under both
systems—the presence of a considerable Highland element, of a large
number of shepherds and craftsmen and artisans.
In 1838 no fewer than
nine vessels sailed, eight of them from Greenock or from far northern
ports, with a total of 2,461 emigrants in government ships, making this
the peak year of assisted emigration from Scotland. Eliot, in his
Agent-General’s report of April 1838, envisaged the dispatch of twelve
government ships from Britain in 1839—four from each of the three
kingdoms—but five ships were, in fact, obtained for Scotland, and that
year saw the departure of 1,178 assisted emigrants in government ships.
In 1840 the system of
government ships was abolished, together with the British Government
system of bounty emigration (as opposed to the colonial bounty system).
Eliot’s office as Agent-General for Emigration was also abolished, and
its functions transferred to the Colonial Land and Emigration
Commission, but the flow from Scotland continued under the new system,
by which the selection of the emigrants was made by private operators.
By 1840-1 an increasing
number of Scottish shipowners and merchants were availing themselves of
the licences to bring in bounty emigrants granted by the Governments of
New South Wales and Van Diemen’s Land. By 31 December 1841 no fewer
than 71,315 bounty ‘permissions’ were outstanding for New South
Wales, and the government emigration agents were simply supervising the
bounty operations of shipowners, shipbrokers and merchants, both British
and colonial. These private bounty emigration operations will be
considered later, but the problems arising from the predominantly
Highland character of the ‘official’ bounty emigration organized by
Eliot and Boyter first deserve to be examined in some detail for the
light they throw on the nature of this, by far the largest Scottish
influx into Australia up to this time, and on the attitudes of the
emigrants, of their landlords, and of other sections of their countrymen
to Australia.
From 1835 the problems of
destitution and over-population in the western Highlands and islands
were becoming increasingly acute. The general depression of 1836—8
throughout Scotland aggravated the situation, and the outbreak of
disturbances in Canada dimmed, for many Highlanders, the prospect of
settlement in their traditional emigration field. By 1837 much of the
redundant crofting population had become so impoverished that, for them,
even the comparatively cheap passages to North America were out of
reach. In May 1837 Dr. Robert Graham, Professor of Botany in the
University of Glasgow and an early expert on public health and social
problems, sent a report to the Honourable Fox Maule, the active and
progressive Member of Parliament for Aberdeen, on the ‘unexampled
destitution’ in the western Highlands—’worse than any ever known
there before’. Graham cited the reasons for this state of affairs—the
poor potato crops since 1835, the reductions in the army, which had
closed the door to employment for many, the primitive subsistence nature
of the crofting system, and the failure of the fisheries. The only
solution, he declared, was large-scale emigration, involving the removal
of a great number of the people, of all ages. The newly formed Highland
relief committees in Glasgow and Edinburgh were strong in support of
Graham’s ‘large-scale emigration’ proposal, and here, it seemed to
Eliot and to Boyter, was an opportunity for them to be of some service
to both Britain and the Australian colonies.
By 1837 poverty and
destitution seemed to be breaking down the traditional aversion of the
Highlanders towards Australia. Roderick Millar, surgeon at Stornoway in
the Outer Hebrides, wrote to Sir John Hill in Edinburgh in June 1837
reporting that he had been ‘a good deal among the peasantry enquiring
of their inclination to emigrate to New South Wales... . I found among
them a good deal of timidity about going to Australia, but, on the other
hand, a great desire to emigrate to America.' Still, he reported, no
fewer than three or four hundred had said they were willing to go out to
Australia. This prompted Eliot and Boyter to push on with the selection
of emigrants and the arranging of the first vessels to sail from the
Hebrides in July and August 1837.
It was in the question of
selection that they were to come into conflict with important Scottish
interests, for George Grey, at the Colonial Office, had asked Boyter in
April 1837 to co-operate with the Edinburgh and Glasgow relief
committees in selecting and sending out emigrants, and had suggested
that mechanics and skilled agriculturists be selected. The suggestion
showed a lack of knowledge of Highland conditions, for craftsmen of any
kind were few in the Highlands, and agriculture was primitive. Grey was
probably intent on doing his best to meet the needs of the colony for
workers of this description, and Boyter and Eliot, while unable to
follow his suggestion very closely, were determined to ensure that the
emigrants were at least able-bodied, and not likely to be a burden on
the colony.
Here the Agent-General
and the ‘Agent for Emigration to New South Wales in Scotland’ came
into conflict with the relief committees, which included many
influential Scots. The committees objected to the cream of the Highland
population being shipped abroad, leaving only poverty-stricken, aged,
and destitute people in the area. James Stephen apparently asked Eliot
for a report on the subject of an ‘extensive’ (i.e. non-selective)
emigration, for as early as July 1837, before the first ship had sailed
from the Hebrides, Eliot wrote to him ‘on the suggestion that recourse
be had to an extensive emigration’. Eliot agreed that ‘to make a
deep impression on the case, where seventy thousand people are
destitute. . . not only the active and the enterprising, but the weak,
the aged and the sickly, must accompany the general emigration’, but
he held that the bulk of such an emigration must be to North America.
In April 1837 Boyter had
been given special authority by the Colonial Office to select emigrants
from the Highlands, and his lists for the two ships that sailed in July
and August were regarded by the destitution committees as too selective.
The committees believed that Boyter had been more or less given carte
blanche to send out persons of all ages and states of health (though
Grey had obviously envisaged the dispatch of only those emigrants who
would be useful to the colony). In the view of the Committees, Boyter’s
selection policy was discouraging emigration to Australia, and against
the Inverness Courier’s
account of the enthusiastic reception
given to Boyter and to the idea of emigration (at the head of this
chapter) must be set the statements of John Bowie of the Edinburgh
Relief Committee, who had been in the Highlands in the autumn of 1837 to
promote emigration to Australia. In November, he wrote to Glenelg: ‘I
found not only great ignorance with respect to the colony, but also
prejudices of the worst description. . . many who are willing to go to
Australia cannot comply with the regulations because they are too old,
or wish to take aged
relatives.’In May
1838 the Edinburgh Destitution
Committee passed resolutions criticizing Boyter’s selections, charging
that many persons of good character in the Highlands had been
disappointed in their hope of emigration, and going so far as to suggest
that Boyter and the government agents at Leith and Greenock had held out
false hopes of free passages to the people. Defending his service (and
Boyter), Eliot pointed out to Stephen that the committee’s aim—a
‘wholesale emigration’ regardless of age and condition—was contrary to
the whole object of the bounty scheme, which was to provide suitable
settlers for the colony, and not relief measures for the whole Highland
area. He also made the telling point that the desperate situation in the
Highlands was being aggravated by the landlords themselves, who were
associated with the relief committees, for they were destroying the
houses of the people in order to clear away the crofting system. Another
serious accusation brought against Eliot and Boyter by the relief
committees was that they were denuding the Highlands of ‘the superior
class of emigrants’—such as ‘intelligent shepherds’. As Campbell of Jura,
chairman of the Edinburgh
committee, affirmed, this would ‘deplete’ the area, and he urged that
labourers and other unskilled persons be given the advantage of bounty.
The colonial public and the
authorities there, too, were made aware of this strong feeling about
emigration among the educated middle class in the north, for in May
1839 Lesslie Duguid, the
Aberdeen merchant who had been responsible for founding the commercial
Banking Company of Sydney, sent in to the
Sydney Herald
a letter he had received from C. Munro in
Dingwall. Munro, ‘an opulent banker and extensive sheep-farmer in
Ross-Shire’, wrote that it ‘sickened his heart’ to see so many of his
countrymen emigrate to Australia—’If Boyter were ridding the country of
its scum, we should be obliged to him, but he is depriving us of the
very flower of the land. I don’t know one bad man he has taken from this
country.'
Throughout this
controversy Eliot firmly refused to deviate from what he considered to
be his duty to the colony. Like Boyter, Eliot co-operated with the
relief committees, as the large-scale operations of 1837—9 in the
Highlands bear witness, but he never yielded to pressure for an
‘indiscriminate emigration’. If the Scottish Highland element among the
bounty emigrants was smaller because of his determination than it would
have been otherwise, its quality, and its usefulness to the colony, were
all the greater. The Agent-General had to resist continual pressures
from Scotland, and some of them were exerted in such a way as to offer
tempting solutions to the Highland problem to the Government. In January
1838, Bowie, for the relief committees, offered theft entire funds—about
£20,000—to assist the emigration, but Eliot advised Stephen to resist
the offer, since it involved ‘discrimination in favour of one part of
the kingdom’, and kept to his view that the Australian emigration must
be selective, must not become simply ‘the discharge of extensive and
over-peopled districts in this country from their surplus population’.
He contended that Australian emigration funds were insufficient for a
large-scale ‘indiscriminate’ operation, and that the colony would only
be embarrassed by such an influx.
Despite the criticisms of the
relief committees that Eliot and Boyter were creaming off the useful
part of the Highland population for New South Wales and leaving the
useless, the emigration scheme was actually administered with
considerable flexibility, and concessions were made to the natural
family feelings of the Highlanders. As Eliot put
it, Boyter ‘has power within moderate
limits, not to object to the reception of aged relatives, provided the
cost of their passages.. . be paid for by their friends or landlords’.
Since the emigration was being carried on in ships chartered by the
Government, and under government superintendence, this meant a
considerable relaxation of former procedure.
In 1838 the pressure for a
large-scale emigration to Australia reached its peak, with a barrage of
petitions and memorials from the Highlands to the Colonial Office, to
Parliament, and to Eliot. In May, for example, certain ‘noblemen,
gentlemen, and proprietors’ in Arisaig, Moidart, and North and South
Morar petitioned for the extension of operations to their districts, and
Eliot reported to Stephen that Boyter would extend his peregrinations
into these inaccessible areas, but he again emphasized that no such
general exodus as the memorialists contemplated was feasible or
desirable. Other approaches came in at the same time from landowners and
district meetings of magistrates and the clergy in Wester Ross,
Lochaber, and the islands, but to them all Eliot’s attitude was firm.
Boyter would visit the areas and selective emigration would be carried
on, but the service could not become simply a means of alleviating local
distress.
The urgency of the destitution
problem, and the new enthusiasm about the prospects of Australia,
resulted in the submission of some remarkable schemes to the Colonial
Office at this time. Charles Baird, secretary to the Glasgow Highland
Destitution Committee, conveyed to Sir George Grey in January
1838 the proposal of a member of the
Committee, ‘himself a Highlander’, who asked that they should be
permitted to purchase three or four thousand acres of land at Port
Philip or some other suitable locality, on which families from the
western islands would be given allotments. The assistance of both the
committee and the Government would be necessary, and Baird stressed that
the aim was to make emigration
by whole families possible. At the same time, and in collusion with the
Glasgow Committee, John Bowie of the Edinburgh Committee addressed Grey,
stressing the need for family emigration and urging that the whole
operation ‘be opened up more extensively’. The two committees had come
to the same conclusion—that the emigration was not large enough in
scale, and that the Government alone could achieve the great movement of
population necessary to solve the problem. Yet another scheme was that
of Alexander Jopp, a lawyer and company promoter of Aberdeen, on the
fringe of the Highland area, who had a plan for depositing money in
Britain for the purchase of land in New South Wales, in order to be
entitled to send out labourers. Again Eliot’s reaction was unco-operative—
‘incompatible with the present system’.
James Loch, factor for the
extensive estates of the Duchess of Sutherland, had already suggested
that ‘Her Grace would be desirous to join with the Government’ in an
emigration scheme, and Hugh McLean of CoIl had written several times
proposing the establishment of an entirely new settlement in Australia,
with a population (‘free of convict contamination’) of
3,000 destitute Highlanders, 300 to be sent
out yearly for ten years. CoIl himself would undertake the management of
the colony, and suggested that the Government should give him ‘a very
large tract’ of land, and advance him £42,000 in passages for the
Highlanders. He described himself as ‘a Highland proprietor, who, having
lost one-third of his income by the annihilation of the kelp
manufacture, has consequently a large surplus population which must
starve or emigrate’, and stated that he ‘felt most keenly the
responsibility of recommending them going into the almost certain
destruction of a convict contact and example. They are themselves aware
of this great danger and importune me for location apart.’ If a separate
settlement could be formed, Coll believed that Australia would soon
match Canada in popularity as a Highland emigration field.
It was to the North
American colonies that Eliot suggested the proposers of all these
schemes should send their people, and no
encouragement was given to them, not even any
‘abatement’ in the passage money to be asked of labourers, who did not
come under the bounty scheme provisions. The attitude of the landowners
had changed completely since the early years of the century, when the
Highland Society, fearful of a draining off in the population, had
caused such restrictions to be imposed on emigrant vessels that the
traffic, even to North America, because doubtfully profitable. Now the
landowners were desperate to clear their lands, and the provisioning
regulations were relaxed, but the sheer pressure of demand for shipping
space from all over the Highlands created its own problem—because funds
for the operations were limited, and, unlike private operators earlier
in the century who could make their own bargains with the people, Eliot
and Boyter were circumscribed by the selection regulations, and the bulk
of the people they had to consider had lost their savings, had little or
no ready money, and were often utterly destitute.
By May 1838 the Highlanders’
prejudices against going to Australia, reported by Roderick Millar and
by Bowie to Glenelg in November 1837, had largely disappeared, probably
because of Eliot’s and Borer’s relaxation of the regulations to permit
elderly relatives to go out in the government ships. This was the key to
their success in 1837—40 in
securing an ample supply of good quality emigrants, and the same
enlightened attitude, permitting the emigration of family groups, was to
be successful again when the Highland and Island Emigration Society
conducted the next large-scale emigration from the north to Australia in
the 1850s. The growing popularity of Australian emigration in the north
was shown at the meeting held at Fort William on 8 May 1838 with the
object of promoting emigration, specifically to Australia, where it was
stated that 1,200 persons had pledged themselves to go out ‘under the
Colonial Act’ of 1835, and Hew Ainslie, a local merchant, moved that
‘there is no district in Scotland in which the spirit of emigration and
enterprise prevails to a greater extent than in Lochaber’. This change
in the attitude of the Highlanders was also revealed in the approaches
made by William Mackenzie of
Muirton, chairman of the Edinburgh Destitution Committee, urging Glenelg
to send more ships to the west Highlands, where numerous emigrants for
Australia were waiting—this within a few days of the Committee’s attacks
on Borer for distributing misleading circulars in Shetland and raising
false hopes ‘so as to prejudicially affect the favourable feeling for
emigration’.
Misunderstandings were inevitable
between Eliot and Boyter on the one hand, anxious to do their best
within the limits of the existent regulations (or even beyond these
limits), and the destitution committees on the other, appalled by the
extent and urgency of the problem.
Eliot’s last concern with Scottish
emigration as a member of the Colonial Land and Emigration Commission
was with Renfrewshire, that particularly distressed area in the
Lowlands, from which the ‘working men of Paisley’ petitioned Stanley in
May 1841 asking for free
passages to Australia ‘rather than remain at home, dependent on charity
for subsistence’. A local emigration committee had been formed in the
town to further assisted emigration to Australia, and Paisley had sent
in petitions, but Eliot’s final reaction was to refuse assistance, since
no public funds existed for the purpose of sending out weavers. Eliot
refused to relax the regulations in this case, but under the private
bounty system considerable numbers (211 people) went out from
Renfrewshire in 1838—41, and 74 of these were from Paisley.
Despite the criticisms of
the destitution committees for their refusal to countenance a general
exodus, Eliot and Boyter’s government operations provided the largest
and most concentrated Scottish influx into Australia before 1852.
Conditions on the ships they operated were remarkably good, judging by
the low rate of deaths and sickness on the voyages. David Waugh, a
Scottish settler, writing in 1837, gave Boyter the highest praise for
the care and attention he gave to provisioning the vessels. Supplies of
wine were carried for invalids, and large supplies of fresh beef and
vegetables were laid in whenever possible at the
ports of departure, even in the western Highlands.
Nothing came of a proposal by Principal McFarlan and the General
Assembly of the Church of Scotland to have clergymen and teachers
appointed to the ships, Eliot approving the scheme in principle but
pointing out to Stephen that no funds were available to pay such people,
and stressing that the complete authority of the superintendent surgeons
of the ships might be impaired if this were allowed. Yet a concession to
the national diet was made in the provision of supplies of oatmeal in
the ships.
The unwillingness of the
Highlanders among government bounty emigrants to separate from their
kinsfolk and friends was a problem for the colonial authorities, just as
it had been for Borer and Eliot when they were being selected. The case
of the Midlothian, the third government ship to sail from
Scotland, illustrates this very well, for on arriving in Sydney in
December 1837 the Highlanders
claimed that they had received an undertaking before they sailed that
they would be settled as a group in the colony. Their petitions for
employment as a group seeming to be of no avail, they were reported to
have threatened that ‘no more settlers would ever come from the Western
Islands of Scotland’. The problem was solved when Andrew Lang, a Scots
settler on the Hunter River, undertook to settle the whole shipload on
his estate. The close ties of relationship among many of these people
can be guessed from the emigrant list of the
British King,
which sailed from Tobermory in October 1838.
Of 332 people, 146 bore the surname Macdonald.
The Midlothian
case was apparently unique in the determined resistance made by the
Highlanders to dispersion on arrival, and the fact that the ship was one
of the first to sail from the Hebrides was probably in large part
responsible for its occurrence. When contingents of Highlanders were
already settled, they provided reassurance and a welcome for newcomers,
and a surprising number of them soon prospered, though impoverished on
arrival. A typical instance, cited by Lang, was John McMillan of
Skipness, a destitute Highlander who had been forced by the economic
pressures of the 1830s to become ‘a common porter’ for six years in the
streets of Greenock. Within seven years of his arrival in Port Phillip
in 1840 he had become a farmer, with his own land and 400 head of
cattle.
Even before they arrived
in Australia the first shiploads of Scottish bounty emigrants made a
favourable impression on James Macarthur, a prominent colonial
landowner. In his survey of ‘The Present State and Future Prospects’ of
New South Wales, Macarthur made several approving references to their
quality and conduct, and printed the ‘strict code’ of rules and
regulations which the emigrants sailing from Dundee in March 1837 in the
John Bar!y had drawn up entirely voluntarily for their conduct on
the voyage. These rules made provision for the election of a
superintending committee, for the trial of offenders by a jury chosen by
ballot, and for the appointment of constables or watchmen in rotation.
Swearing, quarrels about religion, and gambling were prohibited, and
there was to be ‘public
reading’ of ‘strictly moral books’.
The
searching investigation before the British
Select Committee on Scottish Emigration in
1841 brought out the view of many witnesses
that Australia would be a particularly suitable emigration field for
both Highlanders and Lowlanders. John Bowie of the Edinburgh Relief
Committee described how he had found in Skye in 1837 that two-thirds of
the people were unwilling to go there, and that many did not even know
of the existence of New South Wales, and how his distribution of a
pamphlet with notes on the colony had led to ‘great emigrations’. Bowie
stated that the movement had been an unqualified success: ‘Parties who
went out without a sixpence write me that they dare not tell me what
they have gained, for they think I could not believe them’, and he
instanced the Highland settlement in the district of Skye on the Hunter
River founded by emigrants from that island as
an example of success.
The Reverend Norman
McLeod, who had been on the relief
committees’ London deputation of 1837 with Bowie and Charles Baird of
Glasgow, still differed in 1847 from
his erstwhile colleagues in
preferring Canada to Australia because of the better shipping facilities
in the Clyde for North America, but his namesake and colleague, the
Reverend N. McLeod of Morven, believed strongly that ‘the people of the
remote glens, a pastoral people, are very well adapted for Australia, or
America, but particularly for Australia’, and Charles Baird of Glasgow
supported him in the view that ‘no class of persons are more capable for
labour in Australia than the distressed persons in the Highlands’. The
evidence given before the Committee was so unanimously in favour of
emigration that it is interesting to speculate on the effects of a
continued large-scale movement from the Highlands. The machinery for
sending people out was changing. There were, after 1841, no more
government ships, but the newly appointed Land and Emigration
Commissioners still had agencies in Scottish ports, and could no doubt
have laid on vessels for the Highlanders if all bounty emigration had
not been stopped in 1841. Emigration on an appreciable scale under
government schemes had been slow to start up in Scotland, and it was
halted just when a certain momentum had been acquired.
Private operators under
the colonial bounty system, and
Scottish emigration to Australia 1832—46
The earliest private bounty
operations carried on from Scotland in 1831 were on a small scale, and
they were hampered by the restrictions on outports imposed through the
influence of the London Emigration Committee. John Broadfoot and others
campaigned in 1835 for the extension of bounty privileges to the direct
emigration of unmarried women, mechanics, and agricultural workers, from
Leith. Concessions in this matter were difficult to obtain, and no
large-scale privately conducted bounty emigration from Scotland
developed before 1837, when merchants, shipping agents, and landowners
in Australia, acting in concert with Scottish merchants, shipowners, and
shipping agents, began to take advantage of the new colonial bounty
system.
It is probable that small groups
of ‘mechanics’, like the two cabinet-makers, the plasterer, and the
engineer who arrived in Sydney as steerage passengers from Leith in
December 1832 in the North Briton, were brought out under the
bounty arrangements of that year, but there is no evidence of bounty
emigration from Scotland on any appreciable scale being conducted by
private operators before 1837. The total number of assisted emigrants
from the whole of the United Kingdom to Australia in the early 1830s was
small, about 3,500 in the five years 1832-36. In 1836 only fifty persons
entered New South Wales under the colonial bounty arrangements, but in
the following year large-scale operations commenced, and with them began
a movement of population from Scotland to Australia which was to come
near to rivalling the achievement of Borer and Eliot with their twenty
shiploads consisting of more than 5,000 persons sent out in 1837—40.
Professor Madgwick has stated that the colonial
bounty system ‘never worked properly’, because London shipowners had
their agents in Sydney, who ‘applied in their own names for permits to
bring in immigrants’, and this is certainly true of the very large-scale
operations of John Marshall and his associates. But there were others
besides Marshall, the London shipowners, and their agents, who secured
licences and brought out immigrants, and among them Scots were
prominent. An outstanding example was the Sydney firm of Gilchrist and
Alexander. In 1840, when John Gilchrist corresponded with the Emigration
Commissioners about extending his activities in this direction, he had
already organized several shiploads of bounty emigrants, many of them
Scots. Between 1837 and 1842 a number of Scottish merchants in Sydney
and Port Phillip, and merchants in Glasgow, were operating under the
‘private’ bounty system, and while Gilchrist and Alexander may on
occasion have been acting on behalf of Scottish and English shipping
interests they represented, they and the others were also acting for
settlers who required labour.
The composition of these shipments
not only showed the sort of workers that settlers wanted, but revealed
as well something of the economic pressures in Scotland at the time. The
redundancy of artisans in some country towns is an example. Before
October 1840, six carpenters from the town of Perth and its district are
recorded among the bounty immigrants, and eleven more carpenters from
Perth arrived between October 1840 and August 1842, as well as two from
Perthshire—a total of nineteen in all for the four-year period.
Similarly, from Fife, after October 1840, came ten carpenters, and from
Aberdeen five, from Lanarkshire six, and from Edinburgh fourteen more.
These figures indicate the decline of Perth as a market on the Highland
fringe, and the general slackness of the building trade throughout the
country, for from the other towns and districts in the same period came
forty more carpenters. The building trades of Edinburgh appear to have
been particularly depressed at the time, and ten joiners from that city
emigrated, as well as eight stonemasons and other artisans, making this
district the largest contributor of building craftsmen to the emigration
to Australia.
The number of blacksmiths also indicates the temporary
setback experienced by the iron trades. In the period 1837-42 fifteen
arrived from Glasgow, thirteen from Edinburgh, seven from Perthshire,
four from Dundee, and four from Fife, and thirty-nine others from towns
and country districts ranging from Ross in the north to Kirkcudbright in
the south. Apart from the concentrations of craftsmen emigrants like
those from Perth and Edinburgh, it is the widespread distribution of
both craftsmen and agricultural workers throughout the country that is
the most impressive feature of the emigration. From small country towns
and villages came masons, plasterers, millwrights, wheelwrights,
cartwrights, carpenters, joiners, and blacksmiths, as well as engineers,
and other skilled workers, who typified the new trades that had
developed with the industrialization of the country, as well as the
traditional crafts.
The number of artisans and shepherds among the Scottish
immigrants is most striking, and is far higher than the proportions for
these categories among either the English or the Irish. Craftsmen
figured prominently among the people brought in by Scottish operators,
who had agents in Scotland in a good position to contact and secure such
desirable immigrants. Altogether, there were 363 craftsmen and mechanics
among the Scots, apart from skilled agricultural workers, gardeners, and
specialized labourers like quarrymen. The prevalence of skilled men was
obvious among the shipments arranged by the private operators, and the
first large group, the 253 Scots brought out by Andrew Lang in the
Portland in December 1837, included:
12 joiners, 1 plasterer, 5 stonemasons, 1
brass-founder, 5 shoemakers, 8 tailors, 4 cabinet-makers, 1 watchmaker,
4 engineers, 1 ship’s carpenter, 3 teachers, 1 bricklayer, 1 iron
turner, 1 saddler, 33 millwrights, 1 compositor and 1 carpenter
as well as a number of skilled agriculturists, five describing
themselves as ‘farmers’, and eight shepherds. By comparison, the 211
Irish who arrived in Sydney in the John Renwick in September
1841, a typical shipload from their country, included only two
carpenters and one blacksmith among the almost unbroken lists of
‘labourers’ and ‘farm labourers’. The proportion of craftsmen among the
English arrivals was higher than among the Irish, but far less than the
proportion among the Scots.
Of 3,416 Scots brought out by the private operators,
2,369 were brought out by Scottish merchants and agents, in Sydney, Port
Philip, and Glasgow. The remainder were mostly brought out by John
Marshall, of London, who, according to Eliot, had a virtual monopoly of
bounty emigration from the British Isles to New South Wales up to the
beginning of 1840. The Scottish operators are listed below, with the
numbers of Scots immigrants brought in by them. Several of these
operators brought in Irish immigrants as well, in mixed shiploads that
embarked in Scottish ports.
Of the Scottish operators in the colonial ports, the
most active by far was John Gilchrist, who brought out over 900 persons
to both Sydney and Port PhilIip. Gilchrist’s Glasgow agent, John Miller,
was probably responsible for their selection, and they were brought out
both in shiploads in emigrant vessels, and in small groups in general
traders. Entire shiploads arrived for Gilchrist and Alexander in
December 1838 (238 by the Portland), in November 1839 (56 by the
Palmyra), in June 1841 (99 by the Herald), in July 1841
(168 in the William Abrams), in August 1841 (77 by the
Percy), in October 1841 (83 by the New York Packet, forwarded
by John Miller of Glasgow), and January 1842 (56 by the Margaret,
again forwarded by Miller).
Other prominent Scottish operators in the emigrant
traffic were settlers, including Donald McIntyre of Invermein, George
Ranken, G. Bowman of Goulburn Plains, Peter McIntyre of Maitland, and
Andrew Lang of ‘Dunmore’. An importation of fifty-seven persons by D.
McIntyre in the Heber in July 1839 were nearly all country people
from the Highlands, shepherds and labourers and their families. Andrew
Lang’s group—the first entire shipload introduced under the colonial
bounty system by a Scottish operator—probably reflected the keen
interest taken in Scottish emigration by the Lang family. Dick’s
importation of a watchmaker, a jeweller, and a silversmith was probably
to staff his own flourishing business as a jeweller in Sydney. John
Gilchrist acted as Sydney agent for a good number of settlers, on the
Hunter and elsewhere, who were always anxious to have dependable
workers. Working in co-operation with Glasgow merchants like John
Miller, thus enabling them to secure the bounty and so increase the
earning power of their ships, made Gilchrist’s shipping agency for them
all the more profitable.
From the smaller parties shipped out by A. B. Smith,
another Scots merchant in Sydney, it can be concluded that his first
consideration was to obtain workers, or to secure them for his clients,
and the same probably applied to Alexander Campbell, Thomas Walker, and
William Walker and Company, to Alexander Duncan and to the small-scale
operators in Melbourne. All of these were shipping agents as well as
merchants. Francis Reid, of Glasgow, also participated as a shipowner or
shipbroker, interested in securing returns from passage money, and J. F.
Beattie’s draft of sixty persons in March 1842 were intended to populate
and work the lands which the North British Australasian Company had
already secured on the Hunter.
Gilchrist was the leading figure in Sydney in the
1830s in maintaining commercial contact with Scotland, through his
shipping agency and immigration activities. The total of 2,369 persons
brought in by him, and by the others, is impressive.
The emigrants were drawn from every shire in the
country and from the Hebrides, from Shetland, and Orkney. There is no
evidence to suggest that the private operators or their Scottish
collaborators sent out agents to stimulate enthusiasm, or to interview
and select suitable persons, as Borer had done. Probably newspaper
advertisements and printed circulars brought enough inquiries from those
who were considering the step. A significant feature of the movement was
the number leaving for Australia from Glasgow and the West Country, and
from the north-eastern counties, Aberdeenshire, Banff, Morayshire, and
Nairn. These were all districts where comparatively little interest had
been shown in Australia in the 1820s.
The substantial numbers leaving Ayrshire,
Dumfriesshire, and the north-east are an indication of the agricultural
changes in these districts following the introduction of ‘improvements’.
The high figures for Renfrewshire reflect the depression there due to
the change-over from handloom weaving to machine processes. Glasgow,
Lanarkshire, and Edinburgh had not as yet, by 1840, felt the stimulus
that railway building in many parts of the country was soon to give to
the iron trade, and the totals drawn from these places were considerable, 300 from
Edinburgh and nearly 400 from Glasgow. The emigration of the late 1830s
was not localized in the south-east, like that of the 1820s, and
this did not apply only to the assisted emigrants. The middle and
upper-class settlers also went out from practically every district.
There were Highland lairds, Lowland gentry and farmers, merchants from
Glasgow and Dundee, businessmen and lawyers and professional men from
Edinburgh and Aberdeen.
Among the difficulties facing the private operators
in Scotland as well as official emigration agents like Eliot and Boyter
was lack of reliable information about the colony. In October 1839 David Forrest, a Glasgow shipbroker, complained to the
Emigration Commissioners of wholesale ‘desertions’ from some of his
ships due to the press reports (‘exaggerated, if not without
foundation’) of drought in New South Wales, and asked that ‘good
reports’ from dispatches be sent to him for publication, to offset the
newspaper accounts. Another difficulty was the need to provide
certificates of eligibility for bounty passages at short notice— almost
impossible in many cases, due to the fact that most Highland emigrants
journeyed down to Glasgow and Greenock to embark.
The suspension of the bounty system as a result of
the economic crisis in the colony in 1841—2 brought the activities of
the private operators to a halt. While the emigration to North America
increased, that to Australia fell off to the slightest figures since the
mid 1830s. In the second (spring) quarter of the year 1844, normally the
season when departures were most numerous, not one single emigrant left
either Glasgow or Greenock for Australia, while the total of departures
from the two ports for Quebec, New York, and other North American ports
was 2,122. A few months later the bounty ship Herald was
repeatedly advertised in an attempt to beat up emigrants for Sydney on
the temporary resumption of assisted emigration. As John Dunmore Lang
wrote in 1852, much more could have been accomplished under both
‘systems’ if bounty operations could have been started up more quickly,
and direct emigration from Scotland carried on on an extensive scale
from 1835. But considering Marshall’s ‘virtual monopoly’, and the fact
that the government operations of 1837-9 were on so large a scale, it is
surprising that the Scottish operators, in Glasgow, Leith, Sydney, and
Port Phillip, should have accomplished so much. Their activities helped
to bring Australia once again into the Scottish vista.
The Scottish proportion among the bounty Emigrants
Under the government system, as under the colonial
bounty system as conducted through private operators, the emigration
from Ireland far surpassed that from the rest of the United Kingdom in
extent. Eliot’s office maintained no fewer than six agents in Irish
ports, as against the two in Scotland, at Leith and Greenock.
It was during the four years of large-scale private
operations between 1838 and 1841 that the Irish influx reached the
extent that frightened John Dunmore Lang and made the Scottish, and even
the English, influx seem by comparison insignificant. Between April 1838
and August 1842 the Scots percentage of those sent out in this way was
9.6, the English percentage was 28.2, and the Irish made up 63.9, or
almost two-thirds of the total. The numbers were:
Scots 3,291 - English 10,049 - Irish 22,182
Returns of occupations taken up by bounty immigrants,
and wages paid to them, indicate that the Scottish agricultural workers
were often employed as overseers, probably because many of them were
skilled, and a comparison of the wages obtained for the various types of
situation shows that, in the case of the Canton, which arrived in
the colony in 1836, more Scots received wages above the average.
Before the government system ceased to operate in
1840, and Eliot’s function became purely supervisory, the Scottish
proportion in the emigration had fallen sharply. The record of twenty
shiploads dispatched by Eliot and Boyter within three years represents
the high-water mark of Scottish emigration to Australia before 1846.
Despite Eliot’s brushes with the destitution committees and his
resistance to the importunities of Highland projectors, he had risen to
the occasion and helped to overcome the problem in the north. Through
his co-operation with Boyter, over 5,000 Scots, at least half of them
Highlanders, were added to the colonial population. Under the colonial
system, conducted by private operators, Scots numbered only 3,416 as
against a total of 35,647. The cessation of other than supervisory
activity by Eliot and his office may have resulted in a fall in the
Scottish emigration, for to many private operators, both in the colony
and in the major British shipping centres, London and Liverpool, it was
easier to obtain shiploads from the distressed thousands who were
crossing over from Ireland.
Professor Madgwick has stated that ‘the standard of
living in Scotland continued to fall during the thirties and forties
until it was comparable to that of Ireland’. This may be true of certain
areas where trades were becoming obsolete—among the numerous handloom
weavers of Renfrewshire, for instance—and it certainly applied in the
west Highlands, where potato-culture had become the staple of
subsistence crofting, but for most parts of the country it is an
overstatement. As L. C. Wright has shown, unemployment was never so
widespread and intense in Scotland in 1839, 1842, or 1848 as in England.
Over most of the Lowlands, the iron industry and the application of
machinery in the textile industry kept the economy buoyant. Part of the
fall in living standards was due to the Irish influx, and it was the
hopelessness of Irish conditions that resulted in the amazingly high
propo4ion of Irish sent out under the colonial system by the shipowners
and agents, not only from Irish ports, but from Liverpool, London, and
the Scottish ports as well.
Unassisted emigration, 1832-46
Unassisted emigration from Scotland was increasing
steadily after 1834, but the proportion of Scots going out privately is
difficult to determine because many sailed from London. From the
passenger lists of vessels sailing from Leith, Greenock, Aberdeen, and
Dundee, it appears that the rate of unassisted emigration trebled in
1839, as against the average rate indicated in the customs returns for
the years from 1834 to 1836. The proportion of Scots among the
unassisted emigrants was the same as in the 1820s— about a quarter of
the total, a much higher proportion than that of the Scottish bounty
emigrants under the colonial bounty system between 1838 and 1842, which
was only between one-tenth and one-eleventh of the total. As in the
1820s, this later Scottish influx was more markedly a middle-class
movement than the immigration from England or Ireland.
Although many of the Highlanders who went out as
bounty emigrants were destitute labourers, a large proportion of the
craftsmen among the incoming Scots, mostly drawn from the Lowlands, had
a relatively high status at the time in the colonies. They could command
high wages—three or four times those of labourers—and, except in
particularly bad times, their services were eagerly sought after.
Analysis of the Presbyterian congregations in New South Wales in the
1830s shows that the average proportion of ‘labourers’ in the
congregations was very small (9.4 per cent.), that of artisans and
mechanics considerably larger (21.2 per cent.), while that of farmers
and ‘settlers’ (terms often used interchangeably) was the largest (47.7
per cent.). The ‘professional’ class averaged 6.1 per cent. As might be
expected, the concentration of mechanics and craftsmen in Sydney was
very high, the proportion of these in the Scots Church congregation
there being 54.7 per cent.
The slight Scottish influx of the early 1830s, up to
1837, was composed for the most part of middle-class settlers of the
type who had figured so prominently in the movement of the preceding
decade—people like Janet Templeton, widow of a Glasgow banker, who
sailed from Greenock in the chartered brig Czar with her nine
children, some workers and servants, and a small flock of Saxon merinos,
with a schedule of capital totalling £2,053.
There were new elements in the emigration, besides
the half-pay officers who availed themselves of the concessionary grants
of land which had been instituted in 1826. A noticeable feature was the
number of young men of good family, sometimes with a professional
training, like David Lindsay Waugh, a young lawyer from Edinburgh, or
the sons of landed families, like Patrick Leslie of Warthill in
Aberdeenshire, and young graduates, like John Rae, fresh from his Arts
course in Aberdeen.
The year 1839, especially, was notable for the number
of settlers who came out. To mention only a few who ventured out at
their own charges, there were William Macleay, nephew of the Colonial
Secretary, an intending (and successful) squatter, politician, and
scientist; J. F. Beattie, manager of the North British Australasian
Company of Aberdeen; and Catherine Spence, the future welfare worker in
Adelaide. This was the time of the great influx of Scots into the Port
Phillip district from both Van Diemen’s Land and Scotland, when several
pastoral ventures like the Clyde Company (1836) and the partnership of
Neil Black and Company (1839) were formed. The first was composed of two
Scots settlers in Van Diemen’s Land, and five wealthy merchants, three
of them in Glasgow, with a capital of £8,400. The second was similar in
style, the partners consisting of a farmer’s son, a Lowland landowner, a
Scots merchant in Liverpool, and a Glasgow merchant, with a capital
altogether of £6,000.
When Neil Black arrived in Melbourne, he found it ‘a
Scotch colony—two thirds of the inhabitants are Scotch’, and the
preponderance of Scots among the pastoralists of the Western District is
shown by a list of subscribers to the League and Resistance Fund formed
in 1845 to oppose an attempt by the District Council to impose taxes. Of
the fifty-three who subscribed, at least thirty-three were Scots. Many
of the Scots listed in this document are shown as in partnership, and
many were probably working under similar arrangements as the Clyde
Company and Neil Black’s copartnery, with backers in Scotland. For many
years their Scottish origin provided another bond to those of the
mutually shared interests of a powerful section in that colony’s
political life.
By 1844 there existed a Glasgow Association for the
Promotion of the Squatting and General Interests of New South Wales,
with Alexander Finlay of Toward Castle, a member of the partnership for
which Neil Black acted as manager, as its chairman, and this body was
able to exercise pressure in Parliament on behalf of the squatters in
the vital matter of the land regulations. In 1845 the Glasgow
Association memorialized Stanley, the Secretary of State for the
Colonies, on behalf of the squatters, condemning Gipps’s ‘forcing
stockholders to purchase. . . waste land’, and putting forward the
suggestion that had been made, and was to be made again so often, that
the colonial Government should ‘repay to emigrants the cost of their
passages by grants of land at a fair valuation’. The Glasgow Association
acted through their local Members of Parliament and looked also to Lord
Polwarth, a Scottish peer, and to Polwarth’s son, the Honourable Francis
Scott, M.P., for leadership. Scott had pastoral interests in the colony,
and had become the acknowledged London spokesman of the squatters. In
May 1845 the squatters’ supporters held a meeting in London, with
Polwarth in the chair and attended by a number of Scots, including Scott
Donaldson, a shipowner, William Sprott Boyd, of the firm of Jardine
Matheson and Co., Archibald Boyd, East India Merchant of Leith, Lennox
Boyd of Boyd Brothers and Co., all with Australian interests, and a
number of Scottish squatters, home from the colony.
Merchants were another prominent group among the
Scottish settlers of the late 1830s. Until about 1837 there had been few
Scots merchants in Sydney, as compared with Hobart. Writing home from
Sydney in August 1834, David Lindsay Waugh noted that ‘the principal
mercantile houses are nearly all Liverpool or London establishments,
having little or no connection with Scotland’. Yet by 1839 the
mercantile houses of Gilchrist and Alexander, Alexander Brodie Spark, A.
B. Smith, Alexander Campbell, Thomas Walker of W. Walker & Co., and
Alexander Duncan were flourishing, and at Melbourne there were others,
like Craig and Broadfoot, and the agency of Francis Reid of Glasgow. The
bulk of these new establishments were set up by men who arrived after
1835.
Alexander Brodie Spark had been established in Sydney
from the 1820s. His diaries covering the years 1836—56 give an intimate
and detailed account of the social and business ties among the Scottish
merchants and settlers, who formed their own social set and circle. Some
of the mercantile men were agents for Scottish traders or manufacturers,
like the young man sent out by David Guthrie of Duns in Berwickshire in
1840 to open a branch in Hobart for the purchase and dispatch to Britain
of wool, tallow, whalebone, and whale oil. Other Scots represented
London concerns, an example being George Kinnear, Sydney manager for the
Bank of Australasia from 1835. With Lesslie Duguid, founder of the
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney in 1834, Alexander K. Mackenzie,
secretary of the Bank of New South Wales throughout the 1820s, and
Thomas McVitie, managing director of the Bank of Australia in the late
1820s, Kinnear helped to exert a strong Scottish influence on colonial
banking.
Engineers and ‘mechanics’ also figured among the
unassisted emigrants, an outstanding example being the Russell family of
Kirkcaldy, who arrived in Hobart in 1833 and proceeded to Sydney in 1836
to avail themselves of the greater business opportunities there. The
father and his three sons were skilled engineers and coppersmiths, and
their Sydney foundry had by 1846 become the nucleus of the colony’s
first engineering works. Through the Russells, steam engines and
complicated agricultural machinery from Scotland were steadily imported
into New South Wales until, in the late 1850s, the Russell foundry was
extensive enough to manufacture such items.
On the cultural side, too, there were some Scottish
arrivals who were to make their mark. There were Presbyterian ministers
for the new charges in the two oldest colonies, men of the staunch
calibre of John Lillie of Hobart and Thomas Dove of Oatlands. A more
unusual clergyman was the Reverend Henry Carmichael, a graduate of St.
Andrews, who was brought out in the Stirling Castle in 1832 as
one of the ‘Professors’ for Lang’s Australian College. Carmichael was a
pioneer of wine-production and of adult education. He broke with Lang
soon after the college was established, and conducted a normal school
with considerable success in Sydney between 1834 and 1838. But it was in
trade and commerce, even more than in the increasing pastoral activity
of the time, that the renewed Scottish influx was to be most noticeable
in the latter part of the decade. Not all of the many Scottish merchants
in Sydney came out at their own expense. John Macintosh, a trader and
manufacturer, came out in the Asia in 1839 as a bounty immigrant,
and there were others who rose rapidly in social position and in wealth.
Typical of the new age of large-scale investment that was dawning in the
1830s was David McLaren, who came out in 1836 as manager of the South
Australian Company and set it on the road to success as a business
venture by 1841, after some heavy losses in whaling operations.
If the unassisted emigration in the peak years
1837—42 is taken as some 8,000, with 1,500 Scots among them, the
following categories may be considered as making up the total number of
Scots who came out to Australia in the six years of this second phase of
sustained Scottish emigration:
Unassisted 1,500
Government bounty emigrants 5,200
Emigrants sent out by private operators under the colonial bounty system
3,300
Total 10,000
On this basis, Scots made up almost a sixth of the
total immigration of over 60,000 into eastern Australia in the six years
1837—42. The migration was to have a profound effect on Scottish
attitudes to Australia, and was to influence the growing class of
investors, who regarded it as a sign that Australia might have a bright
future as more than a despised penal colony or a droughty sheep-run from
which ambitious adventurers could make quick fortunes.
Return to
Scots Australian History | Return to Book Index
This comment system
requires you to be logged in through either a Disqus account
or an account you already have with Google, X, Facebook or
Yahoo. In the event you don't have an account with any of
these companies then you can create an account with Disqus.
All comments are moderated so they won't display until the
moderator has approved your comment.
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
comments
powered by Disqus