2010 Free Agency Update: St. Louis Rams - Niners Nation
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Niners Nation homepage
Horizontal - White
Niners Nation
a San Francisco 49ers community
Follow Niners Nation online:
Follow Niners Nation on Twitter
Follow Niners Nation on Facebook
Follow Niners Nation on Instagram
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Niners Nation main menu
Sections
By/For Fans
Betting
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Sections
Golden Nuggets
News
Schedule & Scores
Rumors
Injuries
Roster
Depth Chart
By/For Fans
FanPosts
Fan Shop
Community Guidelines
About Us
Contact Us
Betting
FanDuel NFL Odds
FanDuel Super Bowl Odds
San Francisco 49ers Odds
NFL Picks and Predictions
✕
Filed under:
2010 Free Agency Update: St. Louis Rams
By
Josh Branco
Apr  5, 2010, 12:00pm PDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
2010 Free Agency Update: St. Louis Rams
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
The smart play for a team with as many needs as the Rams is to build through the draft. They are not just one or two impact players away from success, so it doesn't make sense for St. Louis to go out and spend a bunch of money on free agents. This is exactly the approach the team has taken this off-season, and it bodes well for their future.
However they have made a couple small moves, including adding some depth along their defensive line. DE James Hall and DT Fred Robbins are both aging, but they should be able to contribute as part of the defensive line rotation. Hall is already familiar with Steve Spagnuolo's defense, having played under him while in New York.
He is not the only former Giant to sign with the Rams this off-season. Cornerback Kevin Dockery had a disappointing 2009, but he could be a very capable nickel back if he is able to rebound in 2010. Dockery is expected to compete with CB Quincy Butler for the job.
Staying on the defensive side of the ball, SLB David Vobora has re-signed with the team on a one year contract. 2008's Mr. Irrelevant saw extensive action last season, and he turned out to be the team's best linebacker against the run. His solid tackling ability may have earned him the starting job in 2010.
St. Louis also added some depth along the interior of their offensive line. Hank Fraley signed a 3-year $3 million contract with the club, and he is expected to compete with incumbent John Greco for the starting right guard position. The former Cleveland Brown has 119 career starts, most of them coming as a center.
After the jump I will discuss the team's remaining needs...
Team Needs
Quarterback: ESPN has Keith Null as the number one quarterback on the Ram's depth chart. With all due respect to Null, that is simply not going to cut it. Expect St. Louis to take another quarterback early in the draft.
Defensive End: St. Louis added a solid pass-rusher in James Hall, but getting pressure on the quarterback with the front four is key to Spagnuolo's defensive scheme. This is still a need area for the Rams.
Defensive Tackle: Fred Robbins is coming off of microfracture surgery, so his signing does not preclude the team from taking another defensive tackle in the draft. They need to shore up the interior of their line, so look for them to add more depth via the draft.
Cornerback: The Rams struggled in pass defense last season, and they could use an upgrade at the cornerback position. While improving the front four will certainly help the situation, they could target a value cornerback in the middle rounds of the draft.
Wide Receiver: Donnie Avery is their number one, and they have some talented young players on the depth chart, however their lack of production means that the team could look to add another receiver at some point in the draft. Of course, having someone other than Kyle Boller and Keith Null under center would help the situation as well.
Tight End: There are some quality blockers on the Ram's depth chart, but no pass catching threats of note. This could be an area they address later in the draft.
2009 Draft Picks
For this edition I've included the player's overall pick in parenthesis.
OT Jason Smith (2)
LB James Laurinaitis (35)
CB Bradley Fletcher (66)
DT Darell Scott (103)
WR Brooks Foster (160)
QB Keith Null (196)
RB Chris Ogbonnaya (211)
Next Up In
San Francisco 49ers News
Most Read
One analyst explains why ‘the death of the ‘25 49ers has been greatly exaggerated’
The connections to the Bills and Rams of 2023 continues to come up when thinking about the 49ers moving forward, but there are some holes in that argument.
Former Rams WR off a career season listed as the 49ers high-upside free agent signing
Can Demarcus Robinson replicate what he did in 2024 with the Rams in 2025 with the 49ers?
Golden Nuggets: Nothing says spring time like fresh trade tumors
Your daily San Francisco 49ers news for Tuesday, March 25th, 2025
Sign up for the
newsletter
Sign up for the Niners Nation Daily Roundup newsletter!
A daily roundup of all your 49ers news from Niners Nation
Thanks for signing up!
Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required)
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Subscribe
close
Chorus
About Us
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook