ï»¿
Team Fortress 2 - A Heavy Update
The unlockable for the Heaviest pugilists out there is the K.G.B. Any time a Heavy kills an enemy with the K.G.B he receives five seconds of guaranteed critical hits. This crit-boost can be used to punch and kill further enemies, extending the boost time. Alternatively, the Heavy can switch to another weapon and use the boost to take out an enemy at range. The Heavy's slow movement speed, and the K.G.B's slower swing speed, make it a risky prospect.
Spyalectical Materialism: Kill or assist in killing 10 cloaked spies.
Permanent Revolution: Kill 5 enemies without spinning down your gun.
Heavy Industry: Fire $200,000 worth of minigun rounds in a single life.
Communist Mani-Fisto: Kill an enemy with a critical punch.
Redistribution of Health: Heal 1000 damage with med-kits in a single life.
Rationing: Kill an enemy with your shotgun while you're out of minigun ammo.
Vanguard Party: Be the first on your team to start capturing a control point in a round.
Pushkin the Kart: Get 50 caps on payload maps.
Marxman: Kill 10 enemies in mid-air with the minigun.
Gorky Parked: Kill 25 enemies while you're standing on a control point you own.
Purge: Kill 15 enemies capturing a control point you own.
Lenin A Hand: Help 5 teammates get revenge on their nemeses.
Five Second Plan: Kill an enemy in the first 5 seconds after you exit a teleporter.
Photostroika: Provide an enemy with a freezecam shot of you taunting while invulnerable.
Konspicuous Konsumption: Eat 100 sandviches.
Don't Touch Sandvich: Kill 50 scouts using Natascha.
Borscht Belt: Kill 10 heavies with The K.G.B.
Iron Kurtain: Take 1000 points of damage in a single life.
Party Loyalty: Kill 50 enemies within 3 seconds of them attacking your Medic.
Division of Labor: Kill 20 enemies with a Medic assisting you, where neither of you die.
Red Oktoberfest: Earn a domination for a Medic who's healing you.
Show Trial: Kill an enemy with a taunt.
Crime and Punishment: Kill 10 enemies carrying your intelligence.
Class Struggle: Work with a friendly Medic to kill an enemy Heavy & Medic pair.
Soviet Block: While invulnerable and on defense, block an invulnerable enemy Heavy's movement.
Stalin the Kart: Block the enemy from moving the payload cart 25 times.
Supreme Soviet: Get ubered 50 times.
Factory Worker: Kill 20 enemies while being recharged by a dispenser.
Soviet Union: Get 25 enemy kills where you either assist or are assisted by another Heavy.
Own the Means of Production: Remove 20 stickybombs by killing the Demomen who produced them.
Krazy Ivan: Kill 100 enemies while both you and your victim are underwater.
Rasputin: In a single life, get shot, burned, bludgeoned, and receive explosive damage.
Icing on the Cake: Get 20 kills on players that you're dominating.
Crock Block: Survive a direct hit from a critical rocket.
Kollectivization: Get 1000 assists.
Download the complete Heavy icon set (PNG hi-res images)
© 2008 Valve Corporation, all rights reserved. Valve, the Valve logo, Half-Life, the Half-Life logo, the Lambda logo, Steam, the Steam logo,
Team Fortress, the Team Fortress logo, Opposing Force, Day of Defeat, the Day of Defeat logo, Counter-Strike, the Counter-Strike logo,
Source, the Source logo, Valve Source and Counter-Strike: Condition Zero are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation.