Greatest Films of 2002
Filmsite: written by Tim Dirks
Search for:
Go
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
GREATEST FILMS
Greatest Films: Overview
100 Greatest Films
101-200 Greatest Films
201-300 Greatest Films
200 Greatest Films - By Decade
300 Greatest Films - By Decade
Greatest Films - By Year
Top 100 Box Office of All-Time
Top Films of All-Time
Greatest Film Series-Franchises
Greatest Films - Criteria
Most Influential Films
Greatest American Movies - AFI
Other Lists of Great Films
REVIEWS
Film Reviews: Overview
All Film Reviews
Greatest Film Reviews - By Decade
Film Reviews - Most Popular
Film Reviews - Moments & Scenes
Film Terms - Glossary
Film Viewing - Tips
Movie Trivia Quizzes
Film References
THE BEST
"Greatest" and "Best" Collections
Best
Genre-Type Films
Bond Films - Best to Worst
'Chick Flicks'
Guy Movies
Three Great Horror Franchises
Sexiest Films of All-Time
Greatest War Films
Greatest Westerns
Greatest Zombie Films
Top Film Franchises-Series
Movie Title Screens
Plot Twists, Spoilers, Surprise Endings
Best Film Speeches & Monologues
James Bond Films
Great Bond Girls
Film Noir - Greatest Femmes Fatales
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 States: Most Authentic Films
Greatest Movie Props of All-Time
Robots in Film
HISTORY
Film History: Overview
Film History - By Decade
Film History Milestones - By Year
Great Films - By Year
Box Office Greats
Top 100 Blockbusters
Top 100 Films of All-Time
Top Box-Office Hits - By Decade/Year
Top Summer Blockbusters of All-Time
Biggest Box Office Bombs & Flops
Sex in Cinema - Comprehensive History
Most Controversial Films
Visual & Special Effects Milestones
Movie Title Screens: Film Franchises
Greatest Movie Props in Film History
Great Christmas Movies
GENRES
Main Film Genres
Action
Adventure
Comedy
Crime-Gangster
Drama
Epics-Historical
Horror
Musicals-Dance
Science Fiction
War
Westerns
Film Sub-Genres
Biopics
Chick Flicks
Courtroom Dramas
Detective-Mystery
Disaster
Fantasy
Film Noir
Guy Films
Melodramas
Road Films
Romance
Sports
Super-Heroes
Supernatural
Thrillers-Suspense
Zombies
Other Major Film Categories
Animated
British-UK
Children/Family
Classic
Cult
Documentary
Serial
Sexual-Erotic
Silent
Sub-Genres Types (and Hybrids)
Best Picture Genre Biases
Summary of Top Films by Genre
Top 100 Films By Genre Type
100 Greatest Cult Films
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 Best Sci-Fi Films of All-Time
AFI's Top 10 Film Genres
All-Time Highest-Grossing by Genre
SCENES
Scenes: Overview
Scenes: Compilations
Greatest Scenes: Collections
Greatest Chases
Greatest Crowds
Greatest Deaths
Greatest Disasters
Greatest Entrances
Funniest Scenes
Scariest Scenes
Sexual - Erotic Scenes
Film Kisses of All-Time
Greatest Music: Song & Dance
Greatest Tearjerkers
What's a Great Film Scene?
Scenes Mini-Quiz
100s of the Greatest Film Scenes
100 Greatest Film Scenes
100 Most Iconic Film Scenes
100 + Scariest Movie Images of All-Time
100 Great Movie Moments (Ebert)
50 Greatest Moments (TV Guide)
Sex in Cinema - Scenes
OSCARS
Academy Awards: Overview
Academy Awards: By Decade and Year
Top Award Winners: Summary
Best Picture
Best Picture: Movie Title Screens
Best Picture - Milestones
Best Picture - Genre Biases
Best Director
Best Actor
Best Actress
Best Supporting Actor
Best Supporting Actress
Best Screenplay/Writer
Mistakes and Omissions
Snubbed by Oscar
Worst Oscar Awards
QUOTES
Great Quotes: Overview
Top 100 Greatest Film Quotes
Great Film Quotes: By Decade
50 Great Movie Quotes
Most Popular Movie Quotes
Top 10 Most Famous Quotes
Top 10 Best Lines Ever
Top 10 Comedy Movie Lines
Top 10 Worst Quotes
Quotes: Speeches & Monologues
Greatest Film Misquotes
Great Opening Film Lines
Great Last Film Lines
Funniest Movie Quotes
Greatest Brief Film Quotes
Film Taglines
DIRECTORS & STARS
Directors/Stars: Overview
50 Greatest Actors/Actresses
Greatest Stars: Roles & Films
Greatest Film Characters of All-Time
Greatest Film Star Legends
Sexy Hollywood Bombshells
Greatest Film Directors
More Great Directors
Film Director Cameos
Stanley Kubrick's Greatest Films
Alfred Hitchcock's Greatest Films
Hitchcock's Film Cameos
Hitchcock's MacGuffins
Greatest Films of the 2000s
Greatest Films of the 2000s
2000 | 2001 | 2002 | 2003 | 2004 | 2005 | 2006 | 2007 | 2008 | 2009
2002
Movie Title Screens: 2002 | Academy
Awards: 2002 | Film History Milestones:
2002
Title Screen
Film Genre(s), Title, Year, (Country),
Length, Director, Description
About Schmidt (2002), 125 minutes, D: Alexander
Payne
Director Alexander Payne's existential character
study and nihilistic black comedy  told about a retired, recent
widower seeking to find meaning in his life. 66
year-old Warren Schmidt (Oscar-nominated Jack Nicholson) was introduced
as a reluctant, about-to-retire Omaha, NE insurance actuary
who viewed his entire life as disappointing. In the opening shot,
Schmidt was in his barren, packed-up Woodmen Insurance office building
waiting on his last day for 5 PM to approach before his farewell
retirement dinner at a steakhouse. He was praised by his young
actuarial replacement, followed by a tribute from  his inebriated
best friend and co-worker Ray Nichols (Len Cariou). Later at home,
after viewing a TV advertisement for a Third World outreach program,
Warren received a mailing and impulsively enrolled. Soon, he  became
engaged in on-going correspondence with his "Childreach" adoptee
(delivered in voice-over soliloquies "Dear Ndugu...")
- a young, uncomprehending Tanzanian six year-old orphan named
Ndugu Umbo. He vented and shared his feelings about his lack of
accomplishments to the boy, and  also expressed his suppressed
anger about his long-time supportive, but homely and overweight wife
Helen (June Squibb) after 42 years of marriage: ("Who
is this old woman who lives in my house?"). He also
showed loathing for his prospective future son-in-law - "nincompoop" waterbed
salesman Randall Hertzel (Dermot Mulroney) who was about to marry
his only child - mousy daughter Jeannie (Hope Davis). At a major
turning point in his life, Warren discovered his wife Helen dead
on the kitchen floor due to a stroke. While going through some of
Helen's possessions in her closet, he discovered that she was involved
in a secret, long-ago affair with a mutual friend - his co-worker
Ray Nichols; enraged, he threw all of her possessions
in boxes and took them to a recycling donation center, and then
personally confronted Ray and punched him out. Leaving earlier than
expected, Warren decided to take a road trip in a newly-purchased,
oversized Adventurer R.V. to Denver to attend his daughter's marriage;
his intention was to try and  convince Jeannie to not marry the
very-average Randall. He took a very meandering road journey on his
way from Omaha, NE westward to Denver, visiting various sites including
his childhood home, his alma mater Univ. of Kansas, and other tourist
attractions. At an RV trailer campground, he met an overly-friendly
RV couple from Eau Claire, WI, John and Vicki Rusk (Harry
Groener and Connie Ray) who invited him for dinner; the night turned
ugly when he made an unexpected pass at Vicki and was vehemently
rejected - he raced back to his RV and fled from the campground.
During the next starry night, Warren delivered a regretful prayer
atop his RV to his deceased wife and asked to be forgiven for being
an imperfect husband - lit by candles illuminating some Hummel figurines
(that Helen liked to collect) that he had recently purchased. In
Denver a few days before the scheduled wedding, he resided in the
home of uninhibited, outgoing,  flirtatious divorcee (and the
mother of the groom-to-be) Roberta Hertzel (Oscar-nominated Kathy
Bates). He was very uncomfortable with her description of the love
life of Jeannie and Randall. To soothe Warren's aching back after
sleeping on a waterbed his first night, Roberta invited the very
unwilling Schmidt for an infamous nude hot-tub session in her backyard
after the church marriage rehearsal and dinner at Tony Roma's. She
casually approached the hot tub, greeted him and asked: "Mind
if I join you?" as she stripped off her red robe to reveal her
earthy, overweight body; she stepped into the hot tub completely
naked; during their conversation, she hinted: ("Here we are,
a divorcee  and a widower. Sounds like a perfect match to me"),
and touched his leg under the water. Intimidated by her, he jumped
out as she asked: "What's the matter?" He
gave an obvious excuse as he quickly retreated to his RV for the
night: "Oh, I have to go to bed now"; she was astonished.
During the reception scene following the wedding of his only daughter
Jeannie to her fiancee Randall, Warren delivered an impassioned,
kind, respectful and emotional speech full of tributes to all the
members of each family, and found some self-healing and consolation.
While returning home from the Denver wedding, Warren wrote a despairing
last letter to Ndugu (heard in voice-over): ("Once I am dead
and everyone who knew me dies, too, it will be as though I never
even existed. What difference has my life made to anyone? None
that I can think of. None at all"). At home
in the climactic catharsis, he noticed in his stack of mail that he had received his first
letter back from Ndugu's missionary mother superior at the orphanage.
Enclosed was  a stick-figure crayon drawing of a smiling Warren
and six year-old Ndugu holding hands. She explained that the boy
couldn't read or write, but appreciated his letters nonetheless.
There was a closing close-up shot of a teary-eyed, elated Warren
who realized that he had made a real difference in the illiterate
young boy's life.
Adaptation (2002), 114 minutes, D: Spike Jonze
Meryl Streep played the captivating role of New Yorker writer
Susan Orlean. In the weird and twisting drama, she was the author
of the non-fiction book, The Orchid Thief, that writers'-block
suffering Charlie Kaufman (Nicolas Cage) was struggling to faithfully
adapt into a screenplay. In a parallel dramatization of the book,
Susan went to Florida on assignment where she secretly fell in love
with the subject of her own book, John Laroche (Chris Cooper), the
orchid-stealing protagonist, and attempted to kill Charlie in the
swamp. In the most startling improvised scene of the film, she snorted
green powder derived from the orchid and became stoned - and got
lost brushing her teeth, staring at her toes and re-creating the
sound of a phone dial-tone.
The Bourne Identity
(2002), 118 minutes, D: Doug Liman
See Bourne series.
Bowling for Columbine (2002), 123 minutes,
D: Michael Moore
Chicago (2002, US/Can.), 113 minutes, D: Rob
Marshall
City of God (2002, Braz./Fr./US) (aka Cidade
De Deus), 131 minutes, D: Fernando Meirelles, Katia
Lund
Die Another
Day (2002), 132 minutes, D: Lee Tamahori
See James Bond series.
Far From Heaven (2002, US/Fr.), 107 minutes,
D: Todd Haynes
This melodramatic, tearjerking romance was deliberately
made as film homage to director Douglas Sirk's May-December romance
drama All That Heaven Allows (1955), starring Rock Hudson and Jane Wyman.
It was set in the same time period, but was reinterpreted with additional
plot elements (sex, profanity, and violence) not possible for Sirk
in his repressive era. It was advertised with the question: "What
Imprisons Desires of the Heart?" In 1957, upper-class Connecticut
housewife and homemaker Cathy Whitaker (Julianne Moore with her third
Oscar nomination) was living a seemingly-perfect,
insular life. Then, she found herself in a troubled
relationship with her alcoholic husband Frank (Dennis Quaid), a closeted
homosexual who was shockingly outed. Her pain, desperation
and confusion spiraled out of control, but she for once was guided
by her heart. For comfort and friendship, she
found herself involved in an inter-racial relationship with kind,
sensitive, well-educated, compassionate and non-judgmental African-American
gardener and single father Raymond Deagon (Dennis Haysbert). Unfortunately,
their socially-taboo friendship was further undermined by prejudiced
gossip from Cathy's best friend Eleanor Fine (Patricia Clarkson),
dashing its possibilities ("far from heaven").
She also experienced self-doubt, social ostracism, and more internal
conflict in the bittersweet conclusion. She decided to give up
her contact with Raymond when repercussions became too great and
the world could not "see
beyond the color, the surface of things."
Femme Fatale (2002), 110 minutes, D: Brian
de Palma
Writer/director Brian DePalma's erotic, neo-noirish, dramatic mystery
thriller with a major plot twist was a glossy, visually-striking and
lustrous, well-crafted cult classic. Its themes included voyeurism,
deja vu, manipulation and deception, destinies crossing paths, and
doubling (including mirroring, doppelgangers and double-identity).
Except for the first half-hour (and the film's short concluding segment),
it was almost entirely a dream of the title character's nightmarish
future, after which the female protagonist attempted to change her destined
fate. It often provided various obvious and crucial clues in plain sight to audiences, along
with deliberately misleading, distracting and contrived happenings
or far-fetched coincidences, forcing movie-viewers to pay close attention.
The film's opening bravura sequence was set during the screening of
the film Est-Ouest at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival.
Mercenary con-thief for hire and blonde femme
fatale Laure Ash (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos) joined together with two
other accomplices:  'Black Tie' (Eriq Ebouaney) and Racine (Édouard
Montoute) to steal jewels from a see-through gold-plated
halter top (an "amazing top in the shape of a serpent"),
encrusted with 500 diamonds (385 carats) and worth over 10 million
dollars. The garment was being worn at the film event by Laure's partner-in-crime
super-model Veronica (Rie Rasmussen). The heist occurred in the ladies
room of the theatre between them as the screening was taking
place. The double-cross and theft was accompanied by their
hot lesbian/bisexual tryst in a toilet cubicle using a bait-and-switch
tactic. For much of the rest of the film, Laure was on-the-run and
hiding out in Paris to evade pursuit from her angry accomplices, and
found herself plagued and pestered by the presence of long-haired,
in-debt Spanish paparazzo Nicolas Bardo (Antonio Banderas) who was
snapping incriminating pictures of her. Serious complications arose
when Laure was mistaken for a missing, suicidal woman named Lily (also
Rebecca Romijn-Stamos), her own look-alike doppelganger. Lily's
aging parents brought Laure to Lily's apartment, where Laure came up
with the idea of stealing Lily's passport and plane ticket to flee
the country and impersonate Lily, in order to escape her vengeful,
double-crossed partners. While taking a hot bath in Lily's apartment,
Laure experienced a dream sequence -- about how she had appropriated
Lily's identity in order to be redeemed and "start
a new life." Much later in the film, she awoke from the dream
(a nightmarish vision of her future) and had to reassess what had happened
in the dream. She decided to give Lily - her doppelganger self - a
second chance to change her future and not commit suicide - and to
also find a way to escape from her own trapped fate.
Frida (2002), 120 minutes, D: Julie Taymor
Gangs of New York (2002, US/Germ./It./UK/Netherl.), 168
minutes, D: Martin Scorsese
Harry Potter
and the Chamber of Secrets (2002, US/UK), 161 minutes,
D: Chris Columbus
See Harry Potter series.
The Hours (2002, US/UK), 114 minutes, D:  Stephen Daldry
Stephen Daldry's drama was about  the stories of  women (over generations)
who were affected by the work and life of Virginia Woolf (Nicole
Kidman), an ailing lesbian who was writing her novel
Mrs. Dalloway in 1923 England, and feeling despairing and
depressed. Julianne Moore portrayed troubled, brooding, depressed,
and pregnant housewife Laura Brown in early 1950s Los Angeles. In
a heart-wrenching, restrained and controlled performance, she deftly
portrayed a sexually-repressed, despairing, and miserable woman suffocated
and stifled by her kindly husband Dan (John C. Reilly) and needy
child Richie (Jack Rovello). In a baking scene in which she produced
a lopsided chocolate cake for her husband's birthday, she exhibited
her futility, suffering, exhaustion, and loathing. By film's end,
although she flirted with the idea of committing suicide, she unapologetically
and willfully chose to abandon her family to find her autonomous
self and purpose. The other woman in the plot was Clarissa Vaughan
(Meryl Streep) - a lesbian career publisher living in present day
New York of 2001. Her nickname, given to her by her poet-friend Richard
Brown (Ed Harris) (dying of AIDS) that she was caring for, was Mrs.
Dalloway.
Ice Age (2002), 85 minutes, D: Chris Wedge
Irreversible (2002, Fr.), 97 minutes,
D: Gaspar Noe
The Lord
of the Rings: The Two Towers (2002, US/NZ), 179 minutes,
D: Peter Jackson
See The Lord of the Rings series.
Peter Jackson's monumental, big-budget action/adventure epic (all three
films) was a dazzling synthesis of many fantastical elements from J.R.R.
Tolkein's masterwork about Middle-Earth: an heroic quest, good vs.
evil, war stories, sci-fi creatures (dwarves, elves, goblins, orcs,
etc.) and ancient wonders. Multiple story lines and epic battles were
interwoven together in a story of friendship, loyalty, honor and courage.
The quest was specifically to destroy a powerful artifact known as
the One Ring, created by the Dark Lord Sauron (the eponymous "Lord
of the Rings"), in order to end Sauron's lordship over the Elves
and Middle Earth. A series of awe-inspiring battles culminated with
the defeat of Sauron, an end to corrupted Wizard Saruman the White
(Christopher Lee), and the destruction of the Ring. Innovative motion
capture created the unforgettable creature of Gollum (Andy Serkis)
(once a good hobbit named Sméagol), who served as the wretched
guide to young hobbits Frodo (Elijah Wood) and friend Sam (Sean Astin)
during their mission - to return the Ring to Mordor and destroy it
in Mount Doom's molten lava.
Minority Report (2002), 145 minutes, D: Steven Spielberg
Director Steven Spielberg's futuristic, who-dun-it
sci-fi, action crime-thriller, that presented the philosophical
debate between fate and free will, was based on the 1956 short
story of the same name by Philip K. Dick (with a screenplay by
Scott Frank and Jon Cohen). The film was successful
financially and critically, with one Academy Award nomination
(Best Sound Editing). In the film's opening set in the Washington,
DC headquarters of the prototypical Pre-crime Department
- in the year 2054, law enforcement was advanced by using three
psychic 'precogs' lying in flotation tanks with their brains
wire-connected to computers. They helped to pre-visualize,
forecast or envision future heinous crimes (in order to prevent
their occurrence). A very fragile and talented
female Pre-cog named Agatha (Samantha Morton) and two twin boys
Arthur and Dashiell (Michael and Matthew Dickman)
were able to see impending future murders and help deter crime
(however, they could not see assaults, rapes, or suicides). A vision
signaled by the receipt of a "red ball" indicated
that the predicted crime was not pre-meditated  but a crime
of passion, while a "brown ball" indicated pre-meditation,
allowing sufficient lead time to apprehend the criminal. Competent
and ambitious DC lead enforcement officer-cop John
Anderton (Tom Cruise) worked in the Pre-crime unit under the
leadership of its founder, the charming and respectable Lamar
Burgess (Max von Sydow). Anderton was revealed
to be psychologically-depressed and grieving following the disappearance/murder of his young son
Sean six years earlier; he was deeply haunted by his past
and was suffering from drug addiction, and had become estranged
from his  wife Lara Clarke (Kathryn Morris). The
future of the Pre-crime division was in jeopardy, due to the
presence of fastidious US Dept. of Justice agent Danny Witwer
(Colin Farrell), who was conducting a division-wide audit.
He was provoking trouble and endangered the program due to
his belief that the predictive technologies were inaccurate
and humanly flawed. Anderton also became curious about one
of the division's earliest and oldest cases - Agatha's pre-vision
of the  attempted drowning of neuroin-addicted
Anne Lively (Jessica Harper) at Roland Lake. (Both
Anderton and Witwer eventually discovered discrepancies in
the pre-vision data streams regarding the Lively murder.)
As Anderton looked further into the case, he was simultaneously
shocked to learn that the next Pre-crime revealed by Agatha's
premonition was the visualization of his own violent murder
of Leo Crow (Mike Binder)  in 36 hours - Crow was someone
he had never met. Anderton's job was threatened and he went
on the run, while believing that he had been framed. He learned
an important fact that in all cases of premonition, the original
data stream was still retained in Agatha's predictive memory.
Anderton broke into the Pre-crime facility, kidnapped Agatha,
and was able to download and record Agatha's predictive pre-vision
memories. He was able to record Agatha's projected images
of the killing of Crow, but according to Agatha's own admission,
there was no post-murder "minority report" that
would save him; a second projection (that was downloaded and recorded)
was of Agatha's original memories of Anne Lively's drowning
death by a masked man. During the predicted confrontation
in a hotel room between Crow and Anderton, Anderton followed
Agatha's advice and arrested Crow rather than killing him.
Incredibly, Crow was upset and begged to be killed by Anderton,
claiming that he had been assured financial stability by an
unknown individual for allowing himself to be set-up as the
murderer of Anderton's son Sean - this was clear evidence
of a conspiracy against Anderton, to compel him to become
angry enough to commit murder and remove him from the Lively
investigation. In frustration, Crow grabbed Anderton's gun
and shot himself to death - fulfilling the Pre-Cogs' vision.
Simultaneously but separately, Witwer and Anderton realized
that there was missing data and other discrepancies in the
Anne Lively murder case. It appeared that a second faked 'echo'
recording existed that revealed the actual murder (and murderer)
of  Anne Lively. The cold-blooded, tyrannical
Burgess, who Witmer revealed as the murderer, had no choice
but to shoot and murder Witwer to silence him. Anderton was
also arrested and charged with the two murders (Crow and Witwer),
and imprisoned in the Pre-crime Containment unit. After his
escape aided by his wife Lara (who realized that Burgess was
the calculating mastermind who had drowned Anne Lively),
the film concluded during a lavish dinner at a DC hotel to
celebrate Pre-crime's national launch, where Anderton had
arranged for the guests to view Agatha's past pre-vision of
the Anne Lively drowning. He cleverly unmasked Burgess as
the hooded murderer. Burgess had arranged the deadly conspiracy
to save his Pre-Crime unit. In the past, Anne had been drug-addicted
and forced to sell her pre-cog daughter Agatha to the program,
but now had cleaned up her neuroin drug habit and wanted to
remove her fragile daughter from the pre-crime flotation tanks.
Threatened by the thought, Burgess wanted to prevent the shut-down
of his sinister, futuristic law enforcement organization,
and had decided to murder Anne Lively - Agatha's mother -
and eliminate the recording of the murder by regarding it
as a fake "echo." Simultaneously,
a new Pre-Crime "red ball" report was generated
that predicted Anderton's murder by Burgess during their face-to-face
confrontation on the hotel's roof-top balcony. Caught in a
"Catch-22" dilemma, Burgess decided to select his own
fate and committed suicide by shooting himself. As a result, the
six-year Pre-Crime experiment was abandoned.
My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002), 95 minutes,
D: Joel Zwick
The Pianist (2002, UK/Fr./Germ./Neth./Pol.), 148
minutes, D: Roman Polanski
Punch-Drunk Love (2002), 95 minutes,
D: Paul Thomas Anderson
The Ring (2002), 105 minutes, D: Gore Verbinski
Russian Ark (2002, Russia/Germ.) (aka Russkij
Kovcheg), 96 minutes, D: Aleksandr Sokurov
Secretary (2002), 111 minutes, D: Steven Shainberg
Signs (2002), 106 minutes, D: M. Night Shyamalan
Solaris (2002), 99 minutes, D: Steven Soderbergh
Spider-Man (2002), 121
minutes, D: Sam Raimi
See Spider-Man series.
Talk to Her (2002, Sp./Fr.) (aka Hable Con Ella), 101
minutes, D: Pedro Almodovar
28 Days Later... (2002, UK), 99 minutes, D:
Danny Boyle
One of the best zombie movies ever and a big hit film - an intense
struggle for survival, with creepy scenes of a desolate and deserted
London. In this zombie film (shot on digital video), zombification
took place almost immediately (10-20 seconds). Some would argue
this post-apocalyptic, plague disaster-drama wasn't a pure 'zombie'
film - the creatures were virus-plagued or infected monsters or
ghouls. Animal activists had attempted to release experimental chimpanzees
(infected with a zombie virus known as the "Rage") from
their cages in a primate research laboratory in Cambridge, England,
and one was bitten. 28 days later in post-apocalyptic London after
the accidental release of a highly-contagious, blood-borne virus
had decimated the city (and was rapidly spreading throughout the
world), mad, "Rage"-infected, red-eyed zombies were running
rampant. One of the survivors, Jim (Cillian Murphy) a bicycle messenger,
awoke from a coma in St Thomas Hospital, after being run down.
He realized that a completely devastated London had been evacuated.
He met up with two other uninfected survivors: Selena (Naomie Harris)
and Mark (Noah Huntley) who were seeking shelter in the London
Underground. There was a suspenseful scene in a tunnel as the group
changed a tire and zombies approached. After Mark was bitten and
infected - and had to be killed, the two met more survivors: taxi
driver Frank (Brendan Gleeson) and his teenage daughter Hannah
(Megan Burns). Eventually, the surviving trio (minus Frank who
was contaminated with a drop of infected blood) reached a rag-tag
military outpost (an old mansion) in northern England near Manchester
commanded by Major Henry West (Christopher Eccleston), suspected
to be power-hungry and mad. The two females were harrassed and
needed protection from the sex-hungry military soldiers, who wanted
to use them for breeding stock. One zombie, infected soldier Private
Mailer (Marvin Campbell), was chained up for experimental purposes.
It was revealed that the virus had NOT spread beyond the UK and
had not infected mainland Europe. About two months after the outbreak
after escaping the mansion and living in a remote cottage, Selena,
Jim, and Hannah spotted a Finnish rescue helicopter - with the
hopeful promise of being saved.
Unfaithful (2002), 124 minutes, D: Adrian
Lyne
Whale Rider (2002, NZ), 101 minutes, D: Niki
Caro
GREATEST FILMS
REVIEWS
THE BEST
HISTORY
GENRES
SCENES
OSCARS
QUOTES
DIRECTORS & STARS
Filmsite Home
About & Contact
Sitemap
FAQ
Reference
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 1996-2025 Filmsite LLC. All rights reserved.