Ralph Barton Perry | Encyclopedia.com       Skip to main content                    EXPLORE EXPLORE Earth and Environment History Literature and the Arts Medicine People Philosophy and Religion Places Plants and Animals Science and Technology Social Sciences and the Law Sports and Everyday Life Additional References Articles Daily         People    Philosophy and Religion    Philosophy: Biographies   Ralph Barton Perry   Ralph Barton Perry gale views  updated May 11 2018             Ralph Barton PerryThe American philosopher Ralph Barton Perry (1876-1957) was a leader of the New Realist movement and the originator of the interest theory of value.Ralph Barton Perry was born on July 3, 1876, in Poultney, Vt. He received his bachelor of arts degree from Princeton University in 1896 and his master of arts and doctor of philosophy degrees from Harvard University in 1897 and 1899. After teaching at Williams and Smith colleges, he joined the faculty of Harvard in 1902.In 1910 Perry joined in the publication of "The Program and First Platform of Six Realists" in the Journal of Philosophy. The New Realist movement, which flourished during the first 2 decades of the 20th century, opposed idealism. New Realism claimed that the world is not dependent
on the mind and that the knowledge relation is accidental or external to the object known.Perry contributed to the cooperative volume New Realism (1912). In Present Philosophical Tendencies (1912) Perry maintained that the cardinal principle of New Realism is "the independence of the immanent, " meaning that the same object which is immanent in the mind when known is also independent of the mind.During World War I Perry served in the U.S. Army as a major. He was also secretary of the War Department Committee on Education and Special Training. From this experience came The Plattsburg Movement (1921). In 1919 Perry returned to Harvard. He was elected president of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association in 1920.Perry's General Theory of Value (1926) contended that interest is "the original source and constant feature of all value" and defined interest as that which belongs to the motor-affective life of instinct, desire, and feeling. Recognizing that interests conflict, he was concerned with the problem of comparative value. Morality, he held, originates with the conflict of interests, and moral value consists in the most inclusive integration of interests—"harmonious happiness."In 1930 Perry was appointed Edgar Pierce professor of philosophy at Harvard. He won a Pulitzer Prize for his two-volume biography, The Thought and Character of William James (1935). In 1936 he became chevalier of the Legion of Honor (France). He also received many honorary degrees.Perry retired from Harvard in 1946 and was Gifford lecturer at Glasgow University until 1948. His lectures were published in Realms of Value (1954), a critique of human civilization in the light of the interest theory of value. On Jan. 22, 1957, he died in a hospital near Boston.Further ReadingThe best treatments of Perry's thought are in the following: W. H. Werkmeister, A History of Philosophical Ideas in America (1949); Joseph L. Blau, Men and Movements in American Philosophy (1952); Lars Boman, Criticism and Construction in the Philosophy of the American New Realism (1955); and Andrew J. Reck, Recent American Philosophy (1964). □ Encyclopedia of World Biography  ×  Cite this article   Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography. MLA Chicago APA "Ralph Barton Perry
." Encyclopedia of World Biography. . Encyclopedia.com. 12 Mar. 2025 <https://www.encyclopedia.com>. "Ralph Barton Perry
." Encyclopedia of World Biography. . Encyclopedia.com. (March 12, 2025). https://www.encyclopedia.com/history/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/ralph-barton-perry "Ralph Barton Perry
." Encyclopedia of World Biography. . Retrieved March 12, 2025 from Encyclopedia.com:  https://www.encyclopedia.com/history/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/ralph-barton-perry Learn more about citation styles  Citation styles Encyclopedia.com gives you the ability to cite reference entries and articles according to common styles from the Modern Language Association (MLA), The Chicago Manual of Style, and the American Psychological Association (APA). Within the “Cite this article” tool, pick a style to see how all available information looks when formatted according to that style. Then, copy and paste the text into your bibliography or works cited list. Because each style has its own formatting nuances that evolve over time and not all information is available for every reference entry or article, Encyclopedia.com cannot guarantee each citation it generates. Therefore, it’s best to use Encyclopedia.com citations as a starting point before checking the style against your school or publication’s requirements and the most-recent information available at these sites:Modern Language Associationhttp://www.mla.org/styleThe Chicago Manual of Stylehttp://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.htmlAmerican Psychological Associationhttp://apastyle.apa.org/Notes: Most online reference entries and articles do not have page numbers. Therefore, that information is unavailable for most Encyclopedia.com content. However, the date of retrieval is often important. Refer to each style’s convention regarding the best way to format page numbers and retrieval dates. In addition to the MLA, Chicago, and APA styles, your school, university, publication, or institution may have its own requirements for citations. Therefore, be sure to refer to those guidelines when editing your bibliography or works cited list.   More From encyclopedia.comAbout this articleRalph Barton PerryAll Sources  -   Updated Aug 24 2016   About encyclopedia.com content   Print Topic  × 1/1      Related Topicsrealism (philosophy)William Weber CoblentzWilliam James PerryYou Might Also LikeNEARBY TERMS  Ralph Abercromby   Ralph   Ralov, Kirsten (1922–1999)   Rally’s Hamburgers, Inc.   Rallye SA   rallycross   Rally's   Rally 'Round the Flag, Boys!   Rallison, Janette 1966–   Rallison, Janette 1966- (Sierra St. James)   Rallis   rallier   Ralliement   Rallidae   Rallentando   rall.   Rall, Yisrael   Rall, Johann Gottlieb   Ralik Chain   Ralfe, Catherine Hester (c. 1831–1912)   Ralf, Torsten (Ivar)   Ralf, Richard   Ralf, Oscar (Georg)   Ralenkova, Anelia (1963–)   Raleigh, Michael 1947–  Ralph Barton Perry  Ralph Higden   Ralph of Diceto   Ralph Sharon Quartet   Ralph Strode   Ralph, Brian 1973- (Brian Patrick Ralph)   Ralph, James R., Jr.   Ralph, Jessie (1864–1944)   Ralph, Margaret (c. 1822–1913)   Ralph, Michael   Ralphs Grocery Company   RALS   Ralston   Ralston, Esther (1902–1994)   Ralston, Jobyna (1900–1967)   Ralston, Ken   Ralston, Vera Hruba (1921–2003)   Ram Camul Sen   Rām Dās, Gurū   Ram Dass, Baba   RAM disk   RAM drive   Ram Mohun Roy   Rām Rāi   ram raid   Rām Si̇gh   Subscribe to our newsletterSign up with your email address to receive news and updates.  We respect your privacy.Footer menu Home About Us Help Site Feedback Privacy & Cookie Policy Terms and Conditions Daily © 2019 Encyclopedia.com | All rights reserved.