Texas Diabetes
Texas Diabetes | Diabetes and Endocrinology Treatment
Home
About Us
Our Doctors
Our Advanced Practice Providers
Careers
Services
Diabetes
Thyroid & Imaging
Osteoporosis & Fracture Treatment
Heart Disease Prevention
Weight Loss
Fibroscan
Patient Information
Forms
Make an Appointment
Billing & Insurance
Patient Resources
Medical Records
Get the Facts
Laboratory Orders
Clinical Trials
Sponsors & CROs
Currently Enrolling Trials
News
Physician Referral
Contact Us
Portal
(512) 458 - 8400
Request an Appointment
Expertsin DiabetesOur goal is simple.  We want to make your life better.Learn moreBoard-certifiedThyroid SpecialistsSolutions that fit youLearn moreManaged weight loss programWe are committed to improving lives.Learn more
Helping people gain better control of their health
Important Notice: Be aware that individuals may be spoofing our phone number to obtain patient information, including appointment details and medication information. Please do not provide personal or financial information to unknown callers. If you are not comfortable with any call you receive from someone claiming to be from our office, please hang up and call us directly at 512-458-8400.
WELCOME TO
Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology
We are experts in Diabetes, Thyroid, Osteoporosis, Weight loss and Hormonal conditions.  Our solutions are personalized, focused on you and your success.
Offering In-Person & Telemedicine Appointments – See Below
A telemedicine visit with us is easy and convenient. You’ll have a chance to speak with your doctor or advanced practice provider in the comfort and safety of your own home over a secure video chat on your smartphone, tablet, laptop, or computer. You do not need to enroll in any special service or pay anything beyond your normal co-payment, coinsurance, and deductible. Note: Insurance coverage for telemedicine is impacted by federal and state laws as well as insurance company policies. You should check with your insurer regarding how telemedicine is covered under your particular policy.
If you would prefer to change your in-person visit to a telehealth visit, please select option 2 to speak with our scheduling department.
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact our office at 512-458-8400. We are encouraging ALL patients to submit any non-emergency medical questions through your MyTDE Patient Portal. If you are needing a prescription refill, please contact your pharmacy directly to submit a refill request. If you do not already have an appointment scheduled, but are needing one, please fill out our online appointment request.
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO YOUR APPOINTMENT REMINDERS –
We are asking all patients to register before your scheduled appointment.
Call us Monday-Friday: 8:30am-12:30am, 1:30pm-4:30pm
(512) 458-8400
Telemedicine Expectations
Our Doctors
My TDE Portal
click here for access information
Physician Referral
Make a Payment
Make an Appointment  OR Call us at:     (512) 458-8400
OUR SERVICES
Diabetes
At Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology, our dedicated physicians and team of educators work closely with you to meet your goals.
Read More
Thyroid & Imaging
Thyroid ultrasounds and other diagnostic tests are all done here, on-site for your convenience.
Read More
Clinical Trials
The physicians at Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology are focused on high quality research in the areas of Diabetes, Thyroid, Osteoporosis, Obesity, Cholesterol & Hypertension.
Read More
Weight Loss Management
The doctors and staff at Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology are committed to helping people lose weight, maintain weight loss and gain better control of their health.
Read More
Experts in Diabetes Treatment
At Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology, we take a personalized approach because we believe that people have specific needs.  We treat people who have Type 1, Type 2, gestational diabetes and pre-diabetes and work closely with them to develop a plan that works best for their lifestyle. We look at nutrition, lifestyle and other alternatives in addition to conventional treatments.  Our physicians and educators work closely with patients to help them meet their goals. We believe that diabetes management options are better than they have ever been. People with diabetes can lead a healthy life.
LEARN MORE
Masters In Hypothyroidism Treatment
At Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology, our board-certified physicians are experts in all Thyroid conditions and offer the latest treatments available.  Common conditions that we see are Hypothyroidism, Hyperthyroidism, Thyroid nodules and Thyroid cancer.  While these diagnoses can be concerning, rest assured that they are all treatable.  Most thyroid nodules are benign and do not require surgical intervention.  If a nodule is found, we offer a prompt and accurate evaluation to determine a treatment plan. Thyroid ultrasounds are a mainstay in the management of Thyroid nodules and Thyroid cancer.  We are a full-service clinic.  Thyroid ultrasounds and biopsies are done on-site, in an outpatient setting for your comfort and convenience.
LEARN MORE
Weight Loss Management
Medically supervised weight loss can be beneficial for obese individuals seeking safe and effective weight loss. Weight loss will not only positively affect the way a person feels, but can lead to improved diabetes, cholesterol and blood pressure management. At Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology, we are committed to helping people gain better control of their health. We understand losing weight is not easy; it requires commitment. Our entire team will offer the guidance and information you need, along with the support and structure to help you stay on track.
Don't let excess weight hold you back any longer. Come partner with us to achieve your weight loss goals and enjoy a healthy life.
LEARN MORE
LATEST NEWS
25March
What is Metabolic Syndrome?
Type 2 diabetes and heart disease can stem from and are associated with a set of common factors, including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, elevated blood sugar levels, obesity, and physical inactivity.  When these conditions occur togethe...
Read More
25February
What is diabetes burnout?
Diabetes is a chronic condition, meaning that it must be managed 24/7 and 365 days a year for those who live with it. If your blood sugar is out of balance, your body will suffer. The level of detail you must consistently devote to what you eat ...
Read More
25February
Diabetes and Heart Disease
Approximately every 33 seconds someone in the United States dies from some form of heart disease, and those who have diabetes are twice as likely to develop heart disease than others.  Heart disease, or cardiovascular disease...
Read More
Sitemap
Home – old
About Us
Services
Sponsors & CROs
Patient Information
News
Contact Us
Contact Information
Central Austin
6500 N. MoPac
Bldg. 3, Ste. 200
Austin, Texas 78731
Phone :  (512) 458-8400
Fax :  (512) 458-8593
Round Rock
110 Deer Ridge Drive
Round Rock, TX 78681
Phone : (512) 458-8400
Fax : (512) 244-3144
South Austin
5000 Davis Lane, Ste. 200
Austin, Texas 78749
Phone : (512) 458-8400
Fax : (512) 291-1499
We specialize in diabetes and thyroid care focused on you and your success.  Our physicians are the Central Texas experts in Diabetes, Thyroid, Osteoporosis, Weight loss and Hormonal conditions.  Texas Diabetes & Endocrinology – Solutions that fit you.
Request An Appointment
Patient Feedback
© Copyright 2025 Texas Diabetes and Endocrinology
HomeAbout Us▼Our DoctorsOur Advanced Practice ProvidersCareersServices▼DiabetesThyroid & ImagingOsteoporosis & Fracture TreatmentHeart Disease PreventionWeight LossFibroscanPatient Information▼FormsMake an AppointmentBilling & InsurancePatient ResourcesMedical RecordsGet the FactsLaboratory OrdersClinical Trials▼Sponsors & CROsCurrently Enrolling TrialsNewsPhysician ReferralContact UsPortal