IceDays | Outdoor Ice Skating Rinks
FollowFollowFollow
Portable Ice Skating Rinks
678-374-7655
Home
Advertising
Locations
Conyers
Covington
Parties
Birthday Packages
Private Party Packages
Faqs
Contact Us
Account
My account
Cart
Checkout
The South’sPremier OutdoorSkating Experience!
“Making Memories”
Photo Gallery
The South’sPremier OutdoorSkating Experience!
“Making Memories”
Gallery
Are you ready to have some fun on REAL ICE!
That’s right, Ice Days is the real deal! We are a local family owned and operated Ice Rink Company based in Conyers GA.  That means you get the personal touch the other rinks can’t offer. With the lowest prices in the state for skating along with our reasonably priced concessions and party packages our focus on family fun and entertainment during the winter holiday season is unmatched. So, this winter make sure to bring the entire family and take a spin on one of our REAL ICE rinks and make memories that last a lifetime!
Both of our locations are OPEN
ADMISSION IS ONLY $15 AND INCLUDES SKATES IF NEEDED
ALWAYS FREE PARKING!
NO OUTSIDE FOOD OR DRINKS ARE ALLOWED AT ANY TIME
Click on a location below to find its full season schedule and birthday party information!
Olde Town Conyers
Photo Gallery
Legion Field Covington

Skate Rental

Concession Stand

Warm up area
We make it easy!
Advertising With
Ice Days
Looking to expand your brand’s visibility this winter season? Ice Days, your favorite ice skating rink company, is offering unique advertising opportunities on our rinks and website! Connect with our engaged, fun-loving audience while they enjoy a day of skating. Whether it’s rink-side ads or digital exposure on our website, this is your chance to showcase your business in front of families and skaters. Don’t miss out on this exciting opportunity!
Click for more info
REVIEWS
Ice Days in Olde Town Conyers4.5Based on 299 reviewspowered by Googlereview us onSherry Miller10:42 12 Feb 24So much fun and family friendly. What a wonderful place:)Sha Love21:03 11 Feb 24Paula W02:43 11 Feb 24Very nice small shops and the ice skating was fun! Saw part of where they filmed vampire diaries too!Hendry Betts00:16 10 Feb 24Great fun for my grandchildren. The staff is super nice and prices are reasonable.Clinton Norton03:15 04 Feb 24Very fun and niceMag C03:15 21 Dec 23Staff was so friendly and helpful. Place is so adorable. Can't wait to go back. There is no restrooms. There is a public restroom, but it was locked. You will have to go to a business nearby and buy something.Kristen00:54 15 Jan 23Super excited to have gotten a chance to ice skate again! It was a workout but so much fun. I definitely recommend this place. Staff is nice. Family friendly. Good selection of quick bites and warm drinks. Rented skates, glad I wore thick cushiony socks. Overall, possibly the best money I spent today! Hope to come again!Ian & Cece Trambauer00:26 28 Dec 22Kids loved it as they do every year but this year they reversed the setup which was great as the uncovered area wasn't in direct sun so there was less slush. Well done.David Burdyck22:27 18 Feb 18My daughter's had a blast ice skating today, and it was like 70 degrees outside while they were doing it.mimi hawkins02:04 28 Dec 17I and my kids just came from there. Great place for everyone. Just really cold given the fact that it is outside. So come dress in your coat, thick socks, scarf, hat and gloves. Good food for a good prices and the staff were very kind.
FollowFollowFollow
678-374-7655
andrea@icedays.com
@ 2025IceDays | All Rights Reserved
Designed and Powered by Solia Digital Media, LLC