Hollywood Film Festival Honors Transformers: Dark Of The Moon - Transformers News - TFW2005
Log in or Sign up
Log in with Google
Your name or email address:
Do you already have an account?
No, create an account now.
Yes, my password is:
Forgot your password?
Stay logged in
TFW2005HisstankTokuNationToyark
Home
News
Generations
RID (201x)
Movies
Comics
Masterpiece
3rd Party
All News Categories…
Boards
Toys
News & Rumors
Movie Talk
Cartoon Talk
3rd Party Talk
BST
Sightings
Podcast
Toys
Hasbro Lines
– Main Lines
– Collector Lines
– Movie LInes
Takara Lines
– Main Lines
– Collector Lines
3rd Party
Comics
IDW
Dreamwave
Marvel
Gallery
Radicons
Heavy Customs
Minor Customs
Repros & Stickers
Non-TF Customs
Tutorials
Creative GD
Marketplace
Junk Pit
Home » Transformers Movie » Transformers Movie (Just Movie) » Hollywood Film Festival Honors Transformers: Dark Of The Moon
Hollywood Film Festival Honors Transformers: Dark Of The Moon
Posted on August 30, 2011  at 8:43 pm  by Silver Optimus  under Transformers Movie (Just Movie) Official Website of 2011 Hollywood Film Festival is letting us know that Transformers: Dark of the Moon and Visual Effects Supervisor Scott Farrar will be honored at the Hollywood Awards Gala Ceremony.
The 15th Annual Hollywood Film Festival and Hollywood Awards, presented by Starz, have announced that Academy Award nominated cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki will be honored with the “Hollywood Cinematographer Award,” Oscar-winning editor Stephen Mirrione will be presented with the “Hollywood Editor Award,” Academy Award-nominated production designer James Murakami will receive the “Hollywood Production Designer Award,” and Paramount Pictures’ “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” and Oscar-winning visual effects supervisor Scott Farrar will receive the “Hollywood Visual Effects Award” at the festival’s Hollywood Awards Gala Ceremony.
You can read the entire Press Release below.  Hollywood Film Festival Honors “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” Lubezki, Mirrione, and Murakami
2011 Hollywood Film Festival Honors “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” Lubezki, Mirrione, and Murakami
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” Cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki, Editor Stephen Mirrione, Production Designer James Murakami and Visual Effects Supervisor Scott Farrar will be honored at the Hollywood Awards Gala Ceremony.
The 15th Annual Hollywood Film Festival and Hollywood Awards, presented by Starz, have announced that Academy Award nominated cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki will be honored with the “Hollywood Cinematographer Award,” Oscar-winning editor Stephen Mirrione will be presented with the “Hollywood Editor Award,” Academy Award-nominated production designer James Murakami will receive the “Hollywood Production Designer Award,” and Paramount Pictures’ “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” and Oscar-winning visual effects supervisor Scott Farrar will receive the “Hollywood Visual Effects Award” at the festival’s Hollywood Awards Gala Ceremony.
The gala ceremony will take place at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills on October 24, 2011.
The announcement was made today by Carlos de Abreu, Founder and Executive Director of the Hollywood Film Festival. “It is a great pleasure to recognize the extraordinary talent of Emmanuel Lubezki, Stephen Mirrione, James Murakami and Scott Farrar,” said Mr. de Abreu, “and to honor their achievements and contributions to filmmaking.”
ABOUT EMMANUEL LUBEZKI
A four-time Academy Award-nominated cinematographer, Emmanuel Lubezki, most recently was the cinematographer of Terrence Malick’s “The Tree of Life,” a film that has received great acclaim. It stars Brad Pitt, Sean Penn and Jessica Chastain in a riveting story about a Texas family in the 1950s finding themselves seeking answers to the origins and meaning of life. Emmanuel’s remarkable work has alternated between edgy and art-house fare (“Like Water for Chocolate,” “A Little Princess,” “Sleepy Hollow,” “The New World,” and “Children of Men” among others). Presently Emmanuel is filming Alfonso Cuarón’s “Gravity” starring George Clooney and Sandra Bullock.
ABOUT STEPHEN MIRRIONE a.c.e.
Academy Award winner, Stephen Mirrione, recently completed editing both George Clooney’s “The Ides of March” (2011) and Steven Soderbergh’s “Contagion” (2011). This marks Mirrione’s sixth collaboration with Soderbergh, having first worked with the director on “Traffic” (2000). That film won four Academy Awards including Best Film Editing for Mirrione. Other films with Soderbergh include “The Informant!” (2009), “Ocean’s Eleven” (2001) and its two sequels “Ocean’s Twelve” (2004) and “Ocean’s Thirteen” (2007).
Mirrione has edited all of the films directed by Clooney beginning with “Confessions of a Dangerous Mind” (2002) and including the acclaimed political drama “Good Night, and Good Luck” (2005), and the period football comedy “Leatherheads” (2008). “Good Night, and Good Luck” garnered Mirrione best editing nominations from BAFTA and the American Cinema Editors.
Another longtime collaboration began with director Alejandro González Iñárritu on “21 Grams” (2003) also earning a Best Editing nomination from BAFTA. This was followed up by “Babel” (2006). The film earned Mirrione the Prix Vulcain at the Cannes Film Festival, an Eddie from the American Cinema Editors, and a second Academy Award nomination for Best Film Editing. Mirrione went on to edit one of this year’s Best Foreign Language Oscar nominees, “Biutiful” (2010) for Iñárritu.
Other editing credits for Mirrione include Doug Liman’s “Swingers” (1996) and “Go” (1999) as well as Jill Sprecher’s “Clockwatchers” (1997) and “Thirteen Conversations About One Thing” (2001). Mirrione is currently editing “The Hunger Games” (2012) for writer/director Gary Ross.
ABOUT JAMES MURAKAMI
The work of Academy Award-nominated production designer, James Murakami, can be seen in Clint Eastwood’s upcoming J. Edgar, his sixth collaboration with the noted director. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Naomi Watts and Armie Hammer. Murakami also received an Oscar nomination for the 2008 “Changeling.” The Art Directors Guild nominated him for two awards in 2008 — Excellence in Production Design for Contemporary Films for “Gran Torino” and in Period Films for “Changeling.”
Murakami was also production designer on last year’s “Hereafter” and among his other films are “Invictus” and “Letters from Iwo Jima.”
ABOUT “TRANSFORMERS: DARK OF THE MOON” AND SCOTT FARRAR
“Transformers: Dark of the Moon” is the Paramount Pictures’ sequel to the highly successful “Transformers” released in 2007, both directed by Michael Bay, with Scott Farrar as visual effects supervisor. In “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,” Autobots led by Optimus Prime, are back in action taking on the evil Decepticons, who are eager to avenge their recent defeat. The Autobots and Decepticons become involved in a perilous space race between the U.S. and Russia, to reach a hidden Cybertronian spacecraft on the moon and learn its secrets, and once again Sam Witwicky (Shia LaBeouf) has to come to the aid of his robot friends. In addition to Shia LaBeouf, the film stars Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Josh Duhamel, Tyrese Gibson and John Turturro.
Scott Farrar joined Industrial Light & Magic in 1981 as a camera operator on “Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan” and was promoted to visual effects supervisor on “Who Framed Roger Rabbit” in 1987. In 1985, he received an Academy Award for Best Visual Effects for his work on “Cocoon.” Since then he has received Oscar nominations for “The Chronicles of Narnia, “Backdraft,” “A.I.: Artificial Intelligence,” and “Transformers.” His other projects at ILM include “xXx: State of the Union,” “The Pacifier,” “Peter Pan,” “Tears of the Sun,” “Space Cowboys,” “The Haunting,” “Deep Impact” and “Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country,” to name a few.
About Starz Entertainment, LLC:
The festival and awards presenter is Starz Entertainment, LLC, is a premium movie and original programming entertainment service provider operating in the United States. The company offers 17 premium channels including the flagship STARZ® and ENCORE® brands with approximately 19 million and 32.9 million subscribers respectively. Starz Entertainment airs in total more than 1,000 movies and original series every month across its pay TV channels. Starz Entertainment is recognized as a pay TV leader in providing HD, On Demand, HD On Demand and online advanced services for its STARZ, ENCORE and MOVIEPLEX brands. Starz Entertainment (www.starz.com) is an operating unit of Starz, LLC, which is a controlled subsidiary of Liberty Media Corporation and is attributed to the Liberty Starz tracking stock group (NASDAQ: LSTZA).
Festival Contact: 1.310.288.1882
Hollywood Film Festival®
433 N. Camden Drive, Suite 600
Beverly Hills, CA 90210
www.hollywoodfilmfestival.com
Discuss on the 2005 Boards› Views: 4630Transformers on Amazon #ad
Transformers Age of The Primes Deluxe Class Combaticon Vortex, 5.5-inch Converting Action Figure, Robot Toys for Ages 8+
$24.99
Buy on Amazon
Transformers Age of The Primes Wreck ‘n Doom Collection Fisitron and Carnivac 5.5-inch Converting Action Figure 2-Pack, Robot Toys, Ages 8+ (Amazon Exclusive)
$49.99
Buy on Amazon
Transformers Age of The Primes Deluxe Class The Thirteen Alchemist Prime, 5.5-inch Converting Action Figure, Robot Toys for Ages 8+
$24.99
Buy on Amazon
Transformers Age of The Primes Deluxe Class Decepticon Crasher, 5.5-inch Converting Action Figure, Robot Toys for Ages 8+
$24.99
Buy on Amazon
Discussion / Comments (Jump to this Thread on the Boards)
janeDoe001
September 1st 2011, 10:14 am
Alright, I find out I can see DOTM in Imax tomorrow AND it's finally getting the honors it deserves… announced near my birthday! Sweet!
jD001
rattimus prime
September 1st 2011, 9:35 am
F**k you Golden Compass, where are your sequels, HAHAHAHAHAHAHA, Damn polar bears.Recompose Ratty, i needed to get that out for a long time. hopefully we are a shoe in for best visual sfx at the oscars or they could give us the shaft the same way the did in with the 2009 ones by having only three films in that category, someone thought that District 9 looked better then transformers, even though avatar still would have won (which i agree with) it still would have been nice for the recognition
moreprimeland
September 1st 2011, 6:27 am
About time and Congrats and Kudos to all receiving their awards!!
emilyhall205
August 31st 2011, 9:51 am
Yes! I'm glad the visuals are finally getting the recognition they deserve. Congratulations!
Backscatter
August 31st 2011, 9:48 am
Bravo! *claps!*
TylerMirage
August 31st 2011, 4:24 am
Congratulations Farrar and VFX crew!   Well deserved.
caitlindevi
August 31st 2011, 4:15 am
Is it an award for being the only film where the 3D 'actually' works properly?
thebruteslayer
August 31st 2011, 4:14 am
Finally, some damn recognition.
Dark Autobot
August 31st 2011, 3:37 am
Wow!!!! Its well deserved…..So much Transformers bias out there being people hate Bay or….they just don't understand the mixing of G1 and all others Series and adding new stuff to the Trilogy….I like the Autobot Logo that Transformers that holds all 3 movies on B-Ray….Til all are one!
JackHammer
August 31st 2011, 2:57 am
Its about time
SilverOptimus
August 31st 2011, 1:51 am
News Post: Hollywood Film Festival Honors Transformers: Dark Of The Moon
Show MoreNo More Comments
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Please log in to comment here
Discussion / Comments (Jump to this Thread on the Boards)
Search News
All times are GMT -4. The time now is 8:15 PM.