DIC Entertainment to Acquire Golden Books
Home
Children's
Fiction
Freelance
Grammar
IWJ
Poetry
Products
Screenwriting
Songwriting
Writing Contests
DIC Entertainment to Acquire Golden BooksPosted on June 6, 2001
DIC Entertainment Holdings, Inc. will be purchasing
substantially all of the assets of Golden Books Family
Entertainment, Inc. The approximate value of the
transaction is $170 million.
Under the terms of the agreement, Golden Books
will file a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition and
seek approval of the sale to DIC Entertainment under Section
363 of the bankruptcy code. Golden Books' operations will
continue as usual during the court and sale process, which
is expected to take approximately 60 days.
DIC Entertainment will integrate the Golden Books library of
more than 500,000 titles, including a comic book
collection, 3,000 movies, television series and specials and
cartoons into its existing library of over 2,500 episodes
of animated children's programs.
Golden Books' brands include Lassie, Underdog, Pat
the Bunny, the Poky Little Puppy and a variety of seasonal
franchises, including Frosty the Snowman, Rudolph the Red-Nosed
Reindeer and the Little Drummer Boy.
DIC Entertainment Chairman and CEO Andy Heyward said, ``We
believe the business combination when implemented will further
extend our library of valuable branded characters as well as
provide additional opportunities to leverage the powerful
Golden Books brand and enormous collection of wonderful
characters, publications and programs that families have
cherished for nearly 60 years.''
DIC Entertainment was purchased in November 2000 by Andy Heyward
in partnership with Bain Capital, LLC. DIC Entertainment is
a children's entertainment company focused on developing,
producing, distributing, and merchandising children's animated
programming worldwide. Since its founding in 1983, DIC has
produced over 100 series and 3,000 episodes.
DIC's catalog of children's animation includes
brands such as Inspector Gadget,
Madeline, Sailor Moon, Sabrina the Teenage Witch, Where on
Earth is Carmen Sandiego?, Action Man, Sonic the Hedgehog,
and Super Mario Bros.
More from Writers Write
Costco Plans to Sell Books Only From September to December
Karlie Kloss to Relaunch Life Magazine at Bedford Media
NBF Expands National Book Awards Eligibility Criteria
Striking Writers and Actors March Together on Hollywood Streets
Vice Media Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
New in Products: Amazon Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition
Latest News
Merriam-Webster Names Polarization 2024 Word of the Year
Winners of the 2024 Kirkus Prizes Announced
Han Kang Wins The Nobel Prize in Literature for 2024
2024 National Book Awards Finalists Announced
www.writerswrite.com
Copyright © 2024 by Writers Write, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Service | Privacy Policy