David Plouffe – News Stories About David Plouffe - Page 1 | Newser
Must Reads
Must Reads
Most Popular
Popular
US
World
Science
Politics
Great Finds
More
More sections
Superlatives
Breaking
Celebrity
Crime
Entertainment
Green
Health
Lifestyle
Longform
Media
Money
Opinion
Sports
Tech
Travel
Brilliant
Hilarious
Intriguing
By date
Today
Yesterday
Pick-a-date
Depressing
Ridiculous
Scary
Log into your Newser account
Logging in
Joined Newser on:
logout
Settings
Email Subscriptions
Comments
Find what you're looking for
More about Newser:
About Us
Editorial Policy
AI Policy
Sweepstakes
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Site Map
What's New
Want to contribute?
Suggest a Story
Get our apps:
iPhone
iPad
Android
Windows
Install our app:
Newser App
Breaking News
David Plouffe
Stories 1 - 20 |
Next >>
2 Obama Vets Have Advice for Joe Biden
OPINION
May 4, 2020  11:10 AM CDT
2 Obama Vets Have Advice for Joe Biden
Alexrod, Plouffe say he must outdo Trump in digital campaigning
(Newser) -
At a crucial time in American history, the presumptive Democratic nominee is stuck in his basement, write Obama campaign veterans David Axelrod and David Plouffe in a  New York Times  op-ed. And if Joe Biden hopes to defeat Donald Trump in November, he's going to have to get aggressive...
David Plouffe:   Immigration   Reform   Will Happen
TALK SHOW ROUNDUP
Jan 20, 2013  1:05 PM CST
David Plouffe: Immigration Reform Will Happen
But gun control will be a 'hard battle'
(Newser) -
David Plouffe today sounded bullish on immigration reform, saying "there's no reason" that "it shouldn't pass," and adding, "this is the moment." He was less sure on gun control,  Politico  reports, saying "it is going to be a hard battle," but...
Iran-Linked Firm Paid Top Obama Aide $100K
Aug 6, 2012  4:15 AM CDT
Iran-Linked Firm Paid Top Obama Aide $100K
Subsidiary of telecom firm MTN hired Plouffe for speeches
(Newser) -
A potential embarrassment for Obama 2012: The guy who ran Obama 2008 was paid $100,000 for two speeches he made to a subsidiary of a telecom firm that does business with the Iranian regime, reports the  Washington Post . David Plouffe, Obama's 2008 campaign manager and now a senior...
David Plouffe   Lambastes GOP   'Clown Show'
SUNDAY TALK SHOWS
Mar 25, 2012  8:48 AM CDT
David Plouffe Lambastes GOP 'Clown Show'
Targets 'reckless' Gingrich comments on Trayvon Martin murder
(Newser) -
David Plouffe is making the talk-show rounds this morning, and  CNN  reports that he's wasting zero time in bashing Newt Gingrich for  accusing President Obama of politicizing the Trayvon Martin killing , and dismissing the GOP nomination race at large as a "clown show." Gingrich "is clearly...
Obama to Dems:   No Cash for You
FUNDRAISING 2012
Mar 5, 2012  12:09 PM CST
Obama to Dems: No Cash for You
In face of Super PACs, Obama cuts off committees
(Newser) -
For Democrats who President Obama showered with cash in 2008 and 2010, well, they'd better get ready to raise their own darn money this time around. As in the last two election cycles, Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi recently asked the Obama for America campaign and the Democratic National...
DC's 50 Most   Powerful   People
Jan 22, 2012  4:39 PM CST
DC's 50 Most Powerful People
Eric Cantor, Mitch McConnell top the list
(Newser) -
Who are the real power brokers in Washington?  GQ  names the top 50 in its biennial list of the most powerful people in DC—although, the magazine notes, "People with the last names Obama and Biden not included." The top five:   Eric Cantor: The House majority leader is ...
Mitch Daniels:   Lay Off of   Rick Perry
TALK SHOW ROUNDUP
Sep 25, 2011  12:27 PM CDT
Mitch Daniels: Lay Off of Rick Perry
Fat lady ain't singing down in Texas, Indiana governor says
(Newser) -
Mitch Daniels has some advice for those  who are writing Rick   Perry's political eulogy : Hold your horses. "It's way too early to know, or to issue, to pronounce last rites over one performance," Daniels said today. "There's still many of these (debates), too many...
Cantor: We Dragged Obama 'Kicking and Screaming'
talk show roundup
Apr 10, 2011  12:17 PM CDT
Cantor: We Dragged Obama 'Kicking and Screaming'
He claims the president was not leading talks on spending cuts
(Newser) -
According to House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, President Obama had to be dragged “kicking and screaming to the table to cut spending,” he said on Fox News Sunday. Cantor says White House senior adviser David Plouffe is being dishonest in his claim that Obama was the one leading...
White House Begins Staff Overhaul
Dec 24, 2010  9:03 AM CST
White House Begins Staff Overhaul
New economic team, defense chief as Obama eyes reelection
(Newser) -
President Obama is readying a reorganization of his staff, altering his economic team and choosing new defense and press secretaries, among other changes. The aims: an executive branch operating at its full potential, progress with a Republican Congress, and an eye on reelection, the  New York Times  reports. “This...
Obama Planning  Sweeping Staff Shakeup
Dec 15, 2010  8:17 AM CST
Obama Planning Sweeping Staff Shakeup
White House to look different with Plouffe in, Axelrod and Emanuel out
(Newser) -
President Obama has pushed back his staff shakeup until January, but it may be bigger than expected when it actually comes,  Politico  reports. The biggest addition will be David Plouffe, who, alongside interim chief of staff Pete Rouse, is expected to tighten up what had been a chaotic organization revolving...
Plouffe: Dems Can Hang On
SUNDAY TALK SHOWS
Sep 5, 2010  12:28 PM CDT
Plouffe: Dems Can Hang On
Kaine slams skittish Dems for being 'foolish'
(Newser) -
With their party in a  full-blown November panic,  two top Democrats went on the offensive today, with David Plouffe telling Meet the Press that Dems "can maintain control in both chambers if we make this a choice between" his party's candidates and a "crave and crass" GOP. Plouffe...
Reps Get Last    Health Reform Jabs In
TALK SHOW ROUNDUP
Mar 21, 2010  10:51 AM CDT
Reps Get Last Health Reform Jabs In
House members debate whether Dems have the votes
(Newser) -
If you hadn't heard, the House votes on a little thing some like to call health care reform today—and the debate got an early start on the Sunday shows with Democrats signaling they had the votes, and Republicans digging in their heels. David Plouffe and Karl Rove also went...
Obama Team Already    Planning for 2012
Feb 24, 2010  8:22 AM CST
Obama Team Already Planning for 2012
Plouffe, Axelrod, Messina lay groundwork for reelection campaign
(Newser) -
President Obama’s inner circle is already privately laying the groundwork for his 2012 reelection campaign. The planning so far consists mostly of informal private conversations, in between more rigorous 2010 planning, but insiders tell  Politico  that the consensus is that the campaign will be run out of Chicago, managed...
Prez Must Get     Tough, Not    Just Talk Tough
EUGENE ROBINSON
Jan 26, 2010  5:19 AM CST
Prez Must Get  Tough, Not Just Talk Tough
Obama will never make a great populist, writes Eugene Robinson
(Newser) -
President Obama is going to have to recapture the political initiative with substance instead of style, writes Eugene Robinson. Obama—despite his modest upbringing—is never going to have the guy-next-door touch George W. Bush had, so he should focus on making his actions match his words instead of trying...
Obama Calls In His Calvary for 2010 Elections
Jan 23, 2010  2:26 PM CST
Obama Calls In His Calvary for 2010 Elections
Plouffe, other top campaign aides will guide Democrats
(Newser) -
It's no coincidence that David Plouffe has an  essay  in tomorrow's Washington Post advising Democrats about the 2010 elections. President Obama has summoned Plouffe and other key members of the team that won him the 2008 election to guide the party in the upcoming elections. In addition to Plouffe, who...
Plouffe's Advice to Dems: 'No Bed-Wetting'
opinion
Jan 23, 2010  11:40 AM CST
Plouffe's Advice to Dems: 'No Bed-Wetting'
Party can do fine in November if it sticks to its principles
(Newser) -
Democrats are surely in for a "white-knuckled" ride in the November elections, but it doesn't have to be the doomsday everyone's predicting, writes David Plouffe. Obama's former campaign manager lays out his advice in a  Washington Post  op-ed, with "no bed-wetting" among his suggestions. "Instead of fearing...
Clinton: Karzai on the Hot Seat
TALK SHOW ROUNDUP
Nov 15, 2009  10:51 AM CST
Clinton: Karzai on the Hot Seat
White House 'will expect more,' focused on defeating 'those who attacked us'
(Newser) -
It's time for Afghan President Hamid Karzai to put up or shut up, Hillary Clinton said today, underscoring the White House's heightened expectations of Kabul. "We are expecting there to be a major crimes tribunal, an anti-corruption commission," she told This Week, adding that the original Afghan mission...
White House    Warns Dems    to Avoid Fox
feud? what feud?
Nov 6, 2009  4:50 PM CST
White House Warns Dems to Avoid Fox
Strategist reports intimidating phone call after appearance
(Newser) -
The Obama administration has toned down its war of words against Fox News, but behind the scenes, it's warning Democratic strategists not to appear on the network. One consultant who made a recent appearance says he received a call afterward from a White House official who told him, "We...
Hey, Barack: Yes, You Still Can
Arianna Huffington
Nov 3, 2009  10:24 AM CST
Hey, Barack: Yes, You Still Can
Plouffe book recalls a historic campaign that got lost in transition
(Newser) -
'Yes, we can" was the rallying cry of a game-changing campaign that swept Obama to victory on the shoulders of a grass-roots tidal wave one year ago—and President Obama would do well to remember Candidate Obama, writes  Arianna Huffington  in a lengthy look at David Plouffe's new campaign memoir....
Rush: Obama    Doesn't Care    About War in    Afghanistan
TALK SHOW ROUNDUP
Nov 1, 2009  9:50 AM CST
Rush: Obama Doesn't Care About War in Afghanistan
Furthermore, prez is intentionally killing economy, says Limbaugh
(Newser) -
Ever-reticent talking head Rush Limbaugh took to the airwaves today, telling Fox News Sunday that President Obama "doesn't care much about" the war in Afghanistan, and his recent salute of slain soldiers "was a photo op precisely because he’s having big time trouble on this Afghanistan dithering...
Stories 1 - 20 |
Next >>
Most Read on Newser
Fallout Intensifies After Bizarre Text Breach
1
Fallout Intensifies After Bizarre Text Breach
1
Maine Governor Responds to Trump's Apology Demand
2
Ex-Yankee Star's Son Likely Asphyxiated
3
Weeks After Viral Mugshot, 'Miss America' Arrested Again
4
Israel Frees Oscar-Winning Director Attacked by Settlers
5
On This Day:
March 25
10 Years of Headlines
Newser in Your Inbox
Know more in just minutes with our free newsletters.
Get our apps
Install our app
iPhone
iPad
Android
Windows
Newser App
Suggest a Story
Settings
Contact
Sitemap
About
Terms
Editorial Policy
AI Policy
Privacy
Privacy Manager
© 2025 Newser, LLC. All rights reserved.
We're glad you're here.
As an ad-supported site,
Newser can't exist without ads.
To read our stories, you'll
need to tweak one thing.
OK, tell me what to do
If you're using:
An ad-blocker, please whitelist Newser
by clicking the ad-blocker icon in your browser.
(Examples:
Adblock Plus ,
uBlock ,
and
Ghostery )
A DuckDuckGo extension in your browser, please access Newser without it: Either by removing it, whitelisting us, or using another browser.
Thanks so much.