Robert Pinsky and Friends (June 1998) - Library of Congress Information Bulletin
skip navigation
Search
The Library of Congress > Information
Bulletin > June 1998
Information Bulletin Home
Past Issues
About the LCIB
Related Resources
News from the Library of Congress
Events at the Library of Congress
Exhibitions at the Library of Congress
Wise Guide to loc.gov
Robert Pinsky and Friends
Poet Laureate Reads, Hosts Fellow Poets
By YVONNE FRENCH
Recently reappointed Poet Laureate Robert  Pinsky, who has had a busy year, told a Library audience a bit about himself  and his writing as he closed the 1997-1998 literary season with a reading  from his poetry.
Poet Laureate Robert Pinsky - N. Alicia Byers
In the words of Dr. Billington, "In his first term,  Robert Pinsky has actively encouraged a national renaissance of spoken poetry.  His vision of recording a broad cross section of Americans reading their  favorite poems has met with heartfelt enthusiasm throughout the country.  The Library looks forward to enriching its archives with the recordings  he selects in his second term."
Mr. Pinsky said: "I'm happy to do the job another  year, and I look forward to continuing work on the Favorite Poem Project  with the help and cooperation of the Library."
The Favorite Poem Project is Mr. Pinsky's main undertaking  as Laureate. He is choosing 1,200 people to say their favorite poem aloud  on audio and video tape. The 1,000 audio recordings will commemorate the  millennium, the 200 video tapes are to be symbolic of the Library's Bicentennial  in the year 2000. As one of the Library's cultural "Gifts to the Nation"  on its 200th birthday, the tapes will come to rest in the Library's Archive  of Recorded Literature on Tape, which has some 2,000 poets and authors reading  their work.
"To see many Americans of various ages, accents and  professions each saying a poem aloud clarifies the power of poetry and enhances  a communal spirit," Mr. Pinsky said. "To some degree, it helps  remind us of who we are." The project is supported by the Center for  the Book in the Library of Congress, the New England Foundation for the  Arts, the National Foundation for the Arts and Boston University.
During his first year as Poet Laureate, Mr. Pinsky offered  a lecture on "Digital Culture and the Individual Soul," brought  a range of poets to read at the Library, granted $12,500 in fellowships  to poets Carol Muske and Carl Phillips from the Witter Bynner Foundation  in conjunction with the Library of Congress and launched his Favorite Poem  Project with a five-city public poetry reading. At the White House on April  22, President and Mrs. Clinton were hosts to Mr. Pinsky and former Laureates  Rita Dove and Robert Hass for an evening of poetry as part of the White  House Millennium lecture series.
Looking back on his first year, Mr. Pinsky said: "It  has been a pleasure as well as a busy time to be here. The Library of Congress  is the greatest house of memory in the world. There is more human striving  recorded and cataloged in this institution than there has ever been anywhere.  It is appropriate for a poet to be attached to a place of memory because  poetry is an ancient way of enhancing memory, a means that predates writing."
Who is this man who has been Poet Laureate for the past  year? He revealed some things about himself at the reading, including his  sense of humor. He related how he sometimes leaves all but the punch line  of a joke on immediate past Poet Laureate Robert Hass's answering machine  in order to ensure a call back.
Of his childhood, he said, "I couldn't be an absurdist,  I was raised that way."
Mr. Pinsky then read "Poem with Refrains." (The  word 'Refrains' in the title refers to selections he included from other  poets, all but one of them 16th century English, his favorite group of poets,  he said.) The poem is about how his mother didn't go to her own mother's  funeral, how she had missed his bar mitzvah ("I wasn't upset: the truth/Is,  I had already decided to be the clever orphan/Some time before.") and  how, 10 years later, she didn't go to his brother's either. But she does  show up for the unveiling of her mother's gravestone. "I can't remember  if she prayed or not,/But that may be the way I'll remember her best:/Dark  figure, awaited, attended, aware, apart," he said.
Earlier, the poem says: "She fogs things up, she scavenges  the taint./Possibly that's the reason I write these poems." Mr. Pinsky  told the audience: "In my feelings and mind, the poem wasn't about  my mother but about the haunted ruins of Jewish tradition." The poem  says: "'Synagog' is a word I never heard/We called it shul, the Yiddish  word for school." He claims his poems are monothematic. "Most  every poem I've written is about the same thing: We live in a haunted ruin."
From "To Television" he read: "Not a 'window  on the world'/But as we call you,/A box, a tube."
Mr. Pinsky went on to read several poems that he defined  as being "against autobiographical navel gazing." His first selection  was "Avenue," in which he spoke of "Scant storefront pushbroom  Jesus//Of Haitian hardware" and "... the tarnished/flute//And  brogue of quidnuncs in the bars." Mr. Pinsky's grandfather had a bar  where he often spent time as a child, he said.
He also loves to play the saxophone, and described in "Ginza  Samba" its European origins, how it was changed by American musicians.
Mr. Pinsky also read "The Want Bone" (below).  In notes to his collection The Figured Wheel (1996) he offered an  analysis of the poem. "The groan of wanting -- the plainest English  word for desire means not-having -- was a physical sound and shape for me  ... The sound and shape of O never repeated to the full rhetorical possibility  ('O my fin O my food O my flower my O my O,' etc.)."
The tongue of the waves tolled in the earth's bell.
Blue rippled and soaked in the fire of blue.
The dried mouthbones of a shark in the hot swale
Gaped on nothing but sand on either side.
The bone tasted of nothing and smelled of nothing,
A scalded toothless harp, uncrushed, unstrung.
The joined arcs made the shape of birth and craving
And the welded-open shape kept mouthing O.
Ossified cords held the corners together
In groined spirals pleated like a summer dress.
But where was the limber grin, the gash of pleasure?
Infinitesimal mouths bore it away,
The beach scrubbed and etched and pickled it clean.
But O I love you it sings, my little my country
My food my parent my child I want you my own
my flower my fin my life my lightness my O.
Robert Pinsky
"The Want Bone"
© 1990 Robert Pinsky
During the spring poetry season, Mr. Pinsky introduced  eight poets who read from their work.
Of Alan Shapiro, he said: "His family liked to tell  jokes. He has the family gift of bringing a line home. Mr. Shapiro, professor  of English and creative writing at the University of North Carolina at Chapel  Hill, read "On Men Weeping, which is in part about Michael Jordan winning  the NBA championship. "The prize he got for proving he was the man  was that he got to be the boy, the baby, weeping, the way Achilles must  have wept because he could weep now, the bronze gear recovered." Mr.  Shapiro is the author of several collections of poetry, including Happy  Hour (1987) and Mixed Company (1996).
Mr. Pinsky said: "Tom Sleigh in The Chain (1996)  has truly written about memory itself in a distinctive, harrowing way that  is established in the book's opening poem. [He] writes about the way memory  thrashes, deceives, lies, twists and consumes itself in poems of beautiful,  fulfilling complexity." The first poem in the book is "Lamentation  for Ur," which is about an ancient city buried under an Iraqi airbase.  It ends: "May the great barred gate/of blackest night again swing shut  on silent hinges. Destroyed in its turn,//may this disaster to be torn out  of mind." Mr. Sleigh teaches at Dartmouth College. His other collections  of poetry are After One (1983) and Waking (1990).
Jorie Graham's poetry has "set a standard for art  because of its rapidity of movement, its undiscovered terrain and its emotionally  rich substructure," Mr. Pinsky said. She read a poem that juxtaposes  memories of being a Holocaust survivor with descriptions of a dying dog  from her book Materialism, noting that she has received flak for  the poem. She said the interpolation is not supposed to be a comparison.  "They can't be measured against each other." Part of the poem  reads: "There is a doorway through which we must pass together you  and I. Made of words, it sounds like, what if, nothing." Ms. Graham  won the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her collection The Dream of a Unified  Field: Selected Poems, 1974-1994 (1995). Her other collections of poetry  include The End of Beauty (1987), Region of Unlikeness (1992)  and The Errancy (1997).
Mr. Pinsky called James McMichael's book-length poem Four  Good Things (1980) "one of the great American poems. Beautiful  and profound, its subject is the modern conundrum of the human ability to  plan, invent and construct, and the stifling, destructive consequences."  From the title poem Mr. McMichael read: "Because it remembers/perfectly,  because it never sleeps, because it can/sort and compare and choose and  find the proper/order in the sum of all its pulses, ON or OFF,/the things  they say in eighteen million homes are/digitized and stored, revised, called  up again by GEOCODE ... We're somewhere in its mesh of cells ... There's  always, just a head of us ... an estimate of trends that we/belong to and  that waits." Mr. McMichael is professor of English and comparative  literature at the University of California at Irvine. He is the also the  author of The Lover's Familiar (1978), Each in a Place Apart (1994)  and The World at Large (1996).
Erin Belieu's style is "confident, feminine and funny,  even when the material is harrowing," Mr. Pinsky said. From her book Infanta (1995) she read a poem that Mr. Pinsky helped her with, "The  Death of Humphrey Bogart." She read: "Your type,/Bogie, with your  sad, gargoyle profile/and fidgety pistol, the hair-trigger style/of you  sipping your gin with killers and dolls,/lips curled back from the glass.  Who'd call that a smile?" Ms. Belieu is the managing editor of AGNI  magazine.
Fanny Howe, said Mr. Pinsky, "is prized by avant-garde  writers. She has what might be described as a Shaker's sense of form."  She called the title poem from One Crossed Out (1997) "a sequence  of madness going in and out of a third- and first-person voice. It is set  in L.A." She read: "Nobody wants crossed-out girls around. ...  They say things like 'I'm not who's who in America. Are you?'" Ms.  Howe is a professor of writing and American literature at the University  of California at San Diego. She is also the author of short stories, poetry,  novels and children's books, among them Forty Whacks (1971), The  White Slave (1980), Radio City (1984) and The Vineyard (1988).
Mr. Pinsky said Rosanna Warren has a "determination  to register accurately -- without melodrama or facile understatement --  painful aspects of life. She has a fiery moral passion and a courtly respect  for human culture, customs, works of art and ways of behaving." From  Stained Glass she read "Song," which she called "an elegy  for her father [Robert Penn Warren], who once consulted in poetry (1944-1945)"  at the Library. Ms. Warren read: "A yellow coverlet/in the greenwood:/spread  the corners wide to the dim, stoop-shouldered pines./Let blank sky/be your  canopy." She is also the author of Each Leaf Shines Separate: Poems (1984) and Stained Glass (1993). Her other books include translations  of Eugenio Montale, Satura: 1962-1970 (1998) and Euripides' Suppliant  Women (1995).
Mr. Pinsky praised former Laureate Mark Strand's (1990-1991)  "elegance of cadences" and his "tantalizing oblique narrative  punctuated by sudden immediacies and directnesses. They have defined for  us the style that effaces mere personality while establishing an unmistakable  sensibility." Mr. Strand read "The Night, the Porch" from  his new book of poetry, Blizzard of One. "What we desire, more  than a season or weather, is the/comfort/Of being strangers, at least to  ourselves." Until recently on the writing faculty of Johns Hopkins  University, Mr. Strand will be teaching at the University of Chicago in  the fall. His other collections of poetry include Sleeping with One Eye  Open (1964), The Planet of Lost Things (1982) and The Continuous  Life (1990).
Ms. French is a public affairs specialist in the Public  Affairs Office.
Back
to June 1998 - Vol 57, No. 6
Stay Connected with the Library All ways to connect »
Find us on
Subscribe & Comment
RSS & E-Mail
Blogs
Download & Play
Podcasts
Webcasts
iTunes U
About |
Press |
Jobs |
Donate |
Inspector General |
Legal |
Accessibility |
External Link Disclaimer |
USA.gov |
Speech Enabled