Sportsground.com - Home
Toggle navigation
Home
About
About
Carbon Zero Commitment
Solutions
Sporty online administration
SuperForms databases
Single Sign-On
SKED Competition Management
SuperCRM
Sport$pay
Schoolground
School Sports Portal
Mobile App
Sporty Game Day App
AppointMe referee/umpire appointments
iDMe - contactless sign-in
Contact
The online platform for organising school and sport communities
Millions of people will use services from Sportsground.com this year and most of them won't even know it. See for yourself why Sportsground.com has become the preferred technology partner for so many sports organisations and education providers across Australia and New Zealand.
OUR SOLUTIONS
National scale platform of great looking CMS websites with online forms, member management, eCommerce, eNewsletters, and much more.
Digital licensing, member management, event management and vehicle management for MotorSport governing bodies and clubs.
College sports management made easy. Fully featured sports administration and communications platform that replaces paper for college sports coordinators and TICs.
Revolutionary website and content management system for schools. Fully responsive for mobiles. Absentee reporting and online parental consents.
Featuring push notifications for group alerts, news, online registrations, parental consents, absentee reporting, photo galleries, newsletters andmuch more
The easiest way to schedule a competition. Accept team entries and easily generate a draw, including the allocation of playing fields or courts. Publish draws & results online.
HighlightCam is a new way to record and share video highlights of Kiwi sport. It automatically films 20 seconds of video surrounding a sporting highlight.
Make online payments easy. Accept payments not only by credit card, but also via direct bank-to-bank payment. Fully PCI-compliant with easy reconciliation.
Automatically updates with content published by NZ schools, sports clubs, regional associations and national bodies using the Sporty.co.nz platform.
SuperCRM™ provides a 360° view of your members and stakeholders over the life of their relationship with your organisation. It lets you keep all contacts, notes and information in one place, providing a 'single source of truth'.
AppointMe™ provides a fast and friendly system for referees and umpires to set their availability on a calendar and then be appointed to game fixtures. Fully integrated with SKED™ Competition Management System.
iDMe lets anyone enter their personal contact information into their phone and use it as a contactless sign-in method to record their attendance if required by the Ministry of Health for contact tracing.
School/Club/Assn Enquiry
PROUDLY SERVING
BoxingNZ
Sportsground.com - EASIEST, SMARTEST, FASTESTABN 76 823 749 538 NZBN 9429 032 904 680SALESSales Enquiries (AU) 1300 187 780Sales Enquiries (NZ) 0800 777 874SUPPORTAU Premium Support (subscribing clients only) 1300 187 780AU General Support (free users - calls cost) 1902 287 780NZ Premium Support (subscribing clients only) 0800 777 876NZ General Support (free users) support@sportsground.com Online Support: https://support.sportsground.com
Powered by Sporty.co.nz
Admin Login