MU Football team responds to Joplin, MONET Sports Director Bill Pollock on scene (AUDIO) - Missourinet
CURRENT NEWS
All News
Business
Crime / Courts
Education
Health / Medicine
History
Military
Politics / Govt
Science / Technology
Sports Features
Transportation
Weather
SHOW ME TODAY
STATE AGENCY PRESS
AFFILIATES
CONTACT
Marketing Team
News Team
Select Page
MU Football team responds to Joplin, MONET Sports Director Bill Pollock on scene (AUDIO)
by admin | Jun 3, 2011
MU Tigers football team responds to recovery effort in Joplin
A tractor-trailer truck that normally carries gear for the Missouri Tigers football team has carried supplies to tornado-ravaged Joplin.
Missourinet Sports Director Bill Pollock has traveled to Joplin to cover the Tigers’ response to the disaster in southwest Missouri. Pollock says the reality of the destruction stands in stark contrast with what he expected to view.
“It wasn’t even close,” Pollock tells us in an interview. “I pulled in and what’s really odd about it is, the tornado cuts a very distinct path and you could look in one direction and see restaurants, buildings; you wouldn’t think that anything was wrong. You can turn around 180 degrees and it’s like a bomb went off.”
Pollock says the destruction is so widespread and complete that it’s hard to describe.
MU Tigers football team unloads supplies in Joplin
“There are no words to describe it,” Pollock says. “I kept driving, saying, ‘Oh my God, Oh my God, Oh my God.”
The Tigers are among several groups volunteering to help with recovery efforts in Joplin.
AUDIO: Brent Martin interviews Bill Pollock in Joplin [7 min MP3]
Share this:
SEARCH THIS SITE
Search for:
NEVER MISS A POST!
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Recent Articles
Missouri Gov. Kehoe to sign anti-crime package; includes state control of St. Louis PD
Missouri’s license bureau offices could soon charge more for certain services
Bill to protect money owed to Missouri’s foster kids could go to Gov. Kehoe’s desk soon
Missouri Dept. of Transportation seeking input for two transportation plans
Missouri bill proposes to expand ‘stand your ground’ law
CONTACT
505 Hobbs RoadJefferson City, MO, 65109
Missourinet is a division of LEARFIELD
FollowFollowFollowFollow
NEVER MISS A POST!
Subscribe here to get our latest news and information delivered to your inbox.
Success!
First Name
Last Name
Email
Subscribe
© Learfield News & Ag, LLC. All Rights Reserved. | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information.