HMS Software Wins Long-Term Contract With Lockheed Martin
Aeronautics Company for Manufacturing Information Systems; Current
Programs Include the JSF, F22, F16 and F2
The Largest Independent Automotive Research Resource
Car Reviews 2024–1993
Used Cars
Perfect Match
Buyers Guides
4Car-Compare
Cars By Payments
Auto News
Video
HMS Software Wins Long-Term Contract With
Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company for Manufacturing
Information Systems; Current Programs Include the JSF, F22,
F16 and F2
CONCORD, Mass.--Feb. 5, 2001--In a multi-year,
multi-million-dollar partnership agreement, HMS Software, Inc.
headquartered in Concord, MA has contracted with Lockheed Martin
Aeronautics Company, headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, to implement
a full suite of computer aided process planning and shop floor systems
to manage the manufacturing information systems for all current and
future production of aircraft.
The Joint Strike Fighter, F22, F16 and F2, programs will use
Second Generation HMS-CAPP (R), HMS Shop Floor Management (R), and HMS
Manufacturing Engineering Change Management to operate their paperless
factory. Together, these products will combine to manage the entire
manufacturing planning and execution system for the Lockheed Martin
Aeronautics Company.
Integrated with HMS Shop Floor Management software are advanced
simulations developed by Lockheed Martin's Virtual Product Development
Initiative, which depicts the manufacturing of subassemblies in a
virtual environment. The simulation allows assembly workers to
visualize critical manufacturing steps, including part loading and
tool use on the shop floor. Workers have the ability to change the
perspective from which the simulations are viewed, allowing them to
navigate freely throughout the entire 3-D virtual environment. These
simulations have proven especially useful as training aids for new
assemblers in several Lockheed Martin Aeronautic Programs.
"This integrated solution from HMS Software, Inc. offers Lockheed
the opportunity to generate significant savings in touch labor and
support functions, while increasing the quality of the manufacturing
process" said Allen C. Vyce, Project Manager of EWI Team, Lockheed
Martin Aeronautics. "With HMS-CAPP and Shop Floor Systems we improve
the effort considerably, allowing our workers to use the system to
view multimedia work instructions electronically and then capture the
`as-built' condition of the components, in lieu of paperwork packages
traditionally used by our shop personnel. The HMS system provides us
access to real-time changes and updates to shop-management and support
personnel with on-line, up-to-date information on the work in process
on the manufacturing floor," continued Vyce.
"Our system was installed as a production pilot in Lockheed's
factory in Fort Worth, TX in order to test the applicability to the
manufacturing environment. We are pleased to now move forward with the
full deployment of our solutions across the Lockheed Aeronautics
Manufacturing facilities" said Alexander Houtzeel, President and
co-founder of HMS Software, Inc.
The savings expected from the full deployment of Second Generation
HMS-CAPP and HMS Shop Floor Management systems are substantial due to
several factors such as the systems' rich functionality, tighter
integration with legacy systems, simplified user interfaces and the
elimination of some legacy systems altogether.
Lockheed Martin Corporation is headquartered in Bethesda, MD and
is a global enterprise principally engaged in the research, design,
development, manufacturing and integration of advanced- technology
systems, products and services. The corporation's core businesses are
systems integration, space, aeronautics and technology services.
HMS Software, Inc. headquartered in Concord, MA is a leading
supplier of process planning, manufacturing, execution,
non-conformance information management and MRO systems. HMS solutions
are used by manufacturing companies to effectively operate their
process planning and shop floor system requirements while integrating
with legacy and other mission critical systems. Founded in 1992, HMS
has a blue chip customer base in the aerospace, defense and related
markets.
All HMS Software products are registered trademarks of HMS
Software, Inc.
Search, Explore, and Discover!
Copyright
1996–
The Auto Channel.
Send your questions, comments, and suggestions to
info@theautochannel.com.
Submit press releases or news stories to
submit@theautochannel.com.
Place copy in body of email, NO attachments please.