Heather Reisman | Jewish Women's Archive
Skip to main content
Sharing StoriesInspiring Change
Explore Topics
Activism
Boycotts
Civil Rights
Community Organizing
Disability Rights
Feminism
Labor Rights
LGBTQIA Rights
Protests
Reproductive Rights
Unions
Voting Rights
Women's Rights
Art
Architecture
Crafts
Fashion and Beauty
Painting
Photography
Sculpture
Business & Economics
Advertising and Marketing
Economics
Entrepreneurs
Education
Jewish Education
Jewish Studies
Libraries
Schools
Summer Camps
Teachers
Women’s and Gender Studies
Family
Children
Marriage
Midwifery
Motherhood
Food
Food Writing
Recipes
Jewish History
Antisemitism
Holocaust
Israel
Palestine
Soviet Jewry
World War II
Jewish Holidays
Hanukkah
Passover
Purim
Rosh Hashanah
Shavuot
Simchat Torah
Sukkot
Tisha B'Av
Tu B'Shvat
Yom Kippur
Media
Journalism
Radio
Television
Performing Arts
Comedy
Dance
Film
Music
Theater
Philanthropy and Volunteerism
Philanthropy
Social Work
Volunteers
Politics and Government
Civil Service
Communism
Immigration
International Relations
Law
Military
Organizations and Institutions
Social Policy
Socialism
Zionism
Religion
Bible
Cantors
Jewish Law
Judaism-Conservative
Judaism-Orthodox
Judaism-Reconstructionist
Judaism-Reform
Midrash and Aggadah
Philosophy
Prayer
Rabbis
Ritual
Spirituality and Religious Life
Synagogues/Temples
Talmud
Theology
Science
Agriculture
Archeology
Engineering
Inventors
Mathematics
Medicine
Natural Science
Physics
Psychology and Psychiatry
Social Science
Technology
Sports
Athletes
Coaches and Management
Olympics
Writing
Fiction
Memoirs
Non-Fiction
Plays
Poetry
Publishing
0 items
Main menu
Encyclopedia
View Encyclopedia
About the Encyclopedia
Suggest an Entry
Collections
Oral History Collection
Multimedia Gallery
Women Rabbis
Bat Mitzvah at 100
Power Couples
Women of Valor
We Celebrate
The Feminist Revolution
This Week in History
We Remember
Community Stories
Western Pioneers
350 Years of Jews in North America
The American Jewess Journal (1895-1899)
Programs
Pomegranate Writing Fellowship
Rising Voices Fellowship
Story Aperture
Book Club
Artful Disclosure
Making Trouble
Education
Activities and Puzzles
Lesson Plans
Teaching Tools
Professional Development
Twersky Education Fellowship
Events
Upcoming Events
Past Book Talks
Past Online History Courses
About
Mission
Ways to Give
Staff and Interns
Board of Directors
Advisory Councils
Career & Volunteer Opportunities
Annual Reports
Celebrating 25 Years
JWA in the News
Contact Us
Secondary Menu
Blog
Podcast
Shop
Donate
The Shalvi/Hyman Encyclopedia of Jewish WomenLearn more about the Encyclopedia
Heather  Reisman
b. August 28, 1948
by
Michael Brown
Canadian publisher and businesswoman Heather Reisman in conversation with Roméo Dallaire, 2010. Photograph by Andrew Rusk.
In Brief
Born in Montreal in 1948, Heather Reisman was raised in a family of businesspeople. After serving in various leadership positions, Reisman entered big box book retailing on her own with Indigo Books. Indigo grew rapidly after its founding. Through mergers and the hostile takeover in 2001 of Chapters, Inc., its much larger competitor, the firm achieved a near monopoly position in the retail book trade in Canada and employs some five thousand people across the country. Though she lives a lavish lifestyle, Reisman is dedicated and committed to community work and charitable giving. Additionally, she has shown sensitivity to Jewish concerns in the conduct of her business.
Contents
1  Background and Early Career
2  Indigo Books
3  Charity, Community Work, and Jewish Causes
Background and Early Career
Possibly the most powerful person in Canada’s book publishing industry at the turn of the twenty-first century and certainly the country’s most prominent Jewish businesswoman, Heather Reisman was born in Montreal and educated as a social worker at McGill University. Her father, Mark, was a real estate broker; her mother, Rose, owned a clothing store; her brother, Howard, operated a computer company.
After Reisman’s first marriage ended, she switched careers, following her family into business. Reisman joined Howard’s company in an executive capacity. After moving to Toronto, she co-founded Paradigm Consulting, of which she was the managing director for seventeen years. For a short time she served as president of Cott Beverages, a pioneer private label bottler of soft drinks. Later she experimented with marketing fresh, ready-to-cook foods through a firm called Now! Foods.
Indigo Books
In 1995, Reisman was invited to become a “frontline investor” for Borders, the American book retailer, which was planning to enter the Canadian market. When that venture failed to receive the required federal regulatory approval in Canada, Reisman entered big box book retailing on her own with Indigo Books. She was backed by the Onex Corporation, one of Canada’s largest and most successful conglomerates, which was controlled by Gerry Schwartz (b. 1941, Winnipeg, Manitoba), whom she had married in 1982.
Indigo grew rapidly after its founding. Through mergers and the hostile takeover in 2001 of Chapters, Inc., its much larger competitor, the firm achieved a near monopoly position in the retail book trade in Canada and by the early 2000s employed some five thousand people across the country. Reisman has described Indigo as “a haven for booklovers, a candy store for the mind and a spa for the soul, and a haven for the heart.” Although until 2002 Indigo was reported never to have shown a profit, Reisman and Schwartz were said in 2001 by Canadian Business to be the thirty-fifth richest family in Canada, with a net worth of approximately 800 million dollars.
Charity, Community Work, and Jewish Causes
Reisman closely guards her privacy and that of her family, which includes two children from her first marriage and two step-children. She is, however, known for an opulent style of life with homes in Toronto, Florida, and California. She is equally well known for generosity and commitment to the community. Together with her family, she endowed the Heather Reisman Chair in Perinatal Research at the University of Toronto. She and her husband established the Gerald Schwartz/Heather Reisman Centre for Jewish Learning at Holy Blossom Temple, of which they are members. The Centre sponsors an annual series of lectures. They have also given major gifts to Mt. Sinai Hospital and the Legacy Fund of the United Jewish Appeal/Federation in Toronto, to Harvard University, and to other charities. Reisman has served as a governor of the Toronto Stock Exchange and of McGill University.
In addition to charitable giving, Reisman has shown sensitivity to Jewish concerns in the conduct of her business. A rabbi serves as a buyers’ consultant to Indigo and some of the stores feature appearances by authors of books of Jewish interest. At her direction, Indigo in 2001 removed Mein Kampf from its shelves, sparking controversy around the issues of censorship and hate literature.
In 2005, in collaboration with her husband, Reisman founded the HESEG foundation, which gives scholarships to those without family in Israel who have served in the Israel Defense Forces. Her commitment to the State of Israel also includes funding education centers in Israel to advance scientific discovery and research in the country.
Reisman was the executive producer of the popular 2014 American documentary Fed Up, which addressed childhood obesity in the United States. In 2015, she was inducted into the Canadian Business Hall of Fame.
More Like This
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Benvenida  Abravanel
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Beatrice Fox Auerbach
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Australia: 1788 to the Present
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
German Immigrant Period in the United States
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Jennie  Grossinger
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Peggy  Guggenheim
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Early Modern Italy
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Tillie Leblang
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Doña Gracia Nasi
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Mollie  Parnis
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Estelle Joan Sommers
See Also:
Encyclopedia:
Julia Waldbaum
Have an update or correction? Let us know
Donate
Help us elevate the voices of Jewish women.
donate now
Listen to Our Podcast
Episode 123: Message From Ukraine: Three Years Later
Shop JWA
Get JWA merch
Get JWA in your inboxRead the latest from JWA from your inbox.
sign up now
How to cite this pageBrown, Michael. "Heather  Reisman." Shalvi/Hyman Encyclopedia of Jewish Women. 27 February 2009. Jewish Women's Archive. (Viewed on March 25, 2025) <https://jwa.org/encyclopedia/article/reisman-heather>.
Contact Us
Jewish Women's Archive
1860 Washington Street
Suite #204
Newton, MA 02466
617-232-2258
About Us
Career & Volunteer Opportunities
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Donate
Signup
Shop
Follow Us:
Copyright © 1998–2025, Jewish Women's Archive