iHigh
iHigh.com / HOME
Sample Page
A FIRST-TO-MARKET IDEA THAT TRANSFORMED THE LANDSCAPE OF HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS MARKETING FOREVER
iHigh.com celebrates it’s 25th Anniversary July 1st, 2024
iHigh celebrated a huge milestone for the company by coming together and celebrating 25 years of innovative marketing solutions. Congrats to Rick Ford and iHigh on such a great accomplishment in the business community!
iHigh Scholar Athlete All-America Team
iHigh provides scholarships to over 150 high achool athletes across the country through the Great American Rivalry Series. Click below to see the winners our 2023 All-America Team scholarships and stay tuned in November for the 2024 nominee announcement!
See the Athletes
Revolutionizing internet and sports marketing since 1999 through creative advertising and promotional programs.
iHigh.com was created in 1999 as a revolutionary national website network for high schools in partnership with the National Federation of High Schools (NFHS). This first-to-market idea led to a network of over 10,000 high school websites and 34 state association marketing sponsorships.
This groundbreaking approach transformed the landscape of high school sports as iHigh grew to a full-service marketing and promotional platform. Today iHigh offers clients an opportunity to connect with its network through advertising, marketing and promotional programs. These include in-school fitness events, the Great American Rivalry Series, Sports Clinics and client-specific custom events designed to reach the high school demographic.
Get in the GAME
The creation of the Great American Rivalry Series (GARS), a 20+ year marketing program.
iHigh Marketing Inc., created GARS to help brands gain awareness by getting associated with one of the largest fan bases in America. GARS allows brands to access untapped, younger audiences and connect with these customers on a more personal level. We also created repeatable and effective marketing programs around fitness with the Navy SEALS, the US Marines, and the US Army, which are still utilized today.
Our creative minds also created a broad range of marketing concepts involving insurance, auto, commercial products, and health-focused campaigns for the youth and young adult audience.
AROUND THE OFFICE
To better serve a broader range of industries, iHigh has expanded their advertising, marketing and promotional services developing BRAINBOX Intelligent Marketing (BBIM), a full-service digital and experiental marketing division.
This evolution allowed us to offer holistic marketing services, expanding our reach and impact nationwide. At BBIM, we are dedicated to crafting unique, immersive marketing experiences that resonate with audiences and drive results. Join us as we continue to push the boundaries of marketing innovation!
Unlock The BOX
Theme by StudioPress.