Advanced Inline Sampling Valves | BIAR Sampling Systems
► Popular videos
Products
Simple Engineered Solutions
Modular Design
Drive / Actuator
Valve Body
Adapters & Sample Receptacles
Thread adapter
Needle Adapter
Safety cabinet
Revo Box
Sample Cylinder
Piston-Injector
Bottle support
Bottle Heat Protection
Valve Internal Components
Types of Sample Valves
Sampling Stable Liquids
Sampling Volatile Chemicals
Product Comparison
Applications
Sulfuric Acid
Nitric Acid
Hydrochloric Acid
Ethylene Dichloride
Toluene Diisocyanate
Liquid Chlorine
Vinyl Chloride
Hydrogen Cyanide
Ethylene Oxide
HF Alkylation
Resources
Blog
Company
Customer Stories
Solutions
Contact
Helping Chemical Plants with Safety and EfficiencyONE SAMPLINGVALVE AT A TIME
TAKE SAFER SAMPLES
SAMPLE QUALITY
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE & ENVIRONMENT
SAFETY
SAMPLE QUALITY
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE & ENVIRONMENT
SAFETY
At BIAR Sampling Systems, we’re dedicated to helping North American chemical manufacturers and petroleum refiners obtain hazardous chemical samplings in a safe, effective and sustainable manner. We fulfill that purpose by applying our engineering and manufacturing expertise, and innovative spirit to helping our customers meet the highest standards in workplace and environmental health and safety. Besides offering custom sampling valves for applications involving toxic liquids and gases, we also provide solutions for other hazardous processes, including High Temperature Processes, Hygroscopic Processes, Polymer Processing and Processes with High Solidification Points.
Sample Valves & Accessories for the Perfect Sample Station
Reducing risks associated with Grab Sampling makes operators’ jobs easier and improves your bottom line.
Combining Precision with Outstanding Durability
As leaders in sampling valve technology, our dead-space-free inline valves can be configured for the most difficult applications where grab sampling of hazardous chemicals in liquid and gas states, including Hydrofluoric Acid, Fuming Acid, MDI/TDI, and Liquid Chlorine is required. These robust valves, along with our adapters and receptacles, are easy to use and may be customized to your specific needs. We help to maximize operator safety by designing maintenance-free valves that don’t require flushing or purging, thus providing a directly representative sample, the first time, every time!
ASK THE EXPERTS
See the BIAR Sampling Systems Difference
When it comes to safety optimization, grab sampling a chemical into a bottle without exposing the operator to toxic fumes or vapors is a safer alternative to traditional sampling methods. For a better understanding of how BIAR can add value to your operations, watch these short videos, as well as other videos
BIAR Sampling Systems integrates engineering expertise with manufacturing excellence to produce superior sampling valves. By enabling the effective sampling of corrosive, volatile and highly hazardous materials, including liquefied gases, we help our customers improve compliance with regulations and best practices. Investing in application-specific Sample Valves allows quicker and safer sampling with minimum waste and reduces your Total Cost of Ownership.
TELL US WHAT YOU NEED
BIAR, Inc. | 2506 S. Philippe Ave., Gonzales, LA 70737
P: 225.647.4300
E: contact@biar.us
Sitemap
View BIAR Sampling Systems profile on   Ariba Discovery &  LinkedIn
ISO 9001:2015 | ISO 3834-2:2021 | CE | FIRE SAFE | ATE | TA-Luft
Product
Applications
Resources
Company
Contact
©  Copyright. | Privacy Policy