Alke' Electric Vehicles: technology made in Europe
×
VehiclesElectric Utility Vehicles ATX 340EOff road vehicles ATX 330EElectric Vehicles ATX 320ESmall Electric Pick-up ATX 310EATX ED electric vehicles - Double cabAtex explosion proof vehiclesWaste CollectionElectric AmbulanceOff Road Utility VehiclesUtility VehiclesConfigurationsElectric Van Alke'Snow bladeElectric vehicles with loading bedElectric AmbulanceAtex explosion proof vehiclesAirport vehiclesRefrigerated vanTail lift truckPizza vending vanElectric passenger carriersElectric truck | Alke'Vehicles with three axis tippingAccessoriesDealer locatorCompanyReferencesCase StudiesResearch and DevelopmentPress ReleasesBecome an ALKE dealer/distributorDealer AreaCatalogsContact Us
Vehicles
All Models
Top Electric Vehicles ATX 340E
Off Road Vehicles ATX 340EH
Electric Vehicles ATX 320E
Small Electric Pick-up ATX 310E
ATX ED electric vehicles - Double cab
Atex explosion proof vehicles
Electric Vehicles Cloud
Waste Collection
Off Road Utility Vehicles
Electric Utility Vehicles
Configurations
All Configurations
Electric Van Alke'
Snow blade
Electric vehicles with loading bed
Electric Ambulance
Atex explosion proof vehicles
Airport vehicles
Refrigerated van
Tail lift truck
Electric passenger carriers
Electric truck Alkè
Vehicles with three axis tipping
AccessoriesDealer locatorCompany
Company
References
Service and spare parts
Case Studies
Research and Development
Hydrogen vehicles
Press Releases
Become an ALKE dealer/distributor
Dealer Area
CatalogsContact Us
EN | FR | DE | ES | PT | IT
Contact us
Vehiclescatalogue
Alke'Worldwide
Alke' Electric Utility Vehicles
Ask for information Catalogue
Alke' Electric Utility Vehicles
Technical details
Ask for prices Catalogue
Top Performance: discover the exceptional performance of the ATX with European N1 homologation, designed to offer the ultimate in efficiency and performance on the road. With a homologated chassis capacity of up to 1,630 kg, a towing capacity of up to 2,000 kg on road and up to 4,500 kg off-road, these vehicles are the most reliable and powerful in their class.
Alkè Electric Vehicles Cloud: Alkè electric vehicles can be equipped with a powerful and intuitive advanced fleet monitoring platform designed specifically for these vehicles. This system provides a comprehensive, real-time view of the entire fleet, optimising daily operations and significantly reducing operating costs. Alkè ATX models guarantee a WLTP range of up to 200 km thanks to their 20 kWh lithium-ion battery.Top performance: Alke' electric vehicles are equipped with motors with high torque and progressive power release, perfect for intensive industrial use and for tackling difficult surfaces such as sand, snow or ice.High autonomy: Alke' ATX models guarantee a WLTP range of up to 200 km thanks to their 20 kWh lithium-ion battery.Energy Efficiency: LED daytime running lights, energy-saving optimised tyres and engines with ECO Mode help minimise energy consumption.Maximum versatility: the load area is available in four sizes: 130 x 123 cm, 180 x 123 cm, 200 x 140 cm and 250 x 140 cm to suit different operating requirements.
ATX for industry
Type approved road use
Urban electric vehicles
Over 100 different configurations: the list of configurations is growing all the time and there are currently more than one hundred possible options for both 2 and 4 seater models as well as for left-hand and right-hand drive.Maximum flexibility as far as batteries are concerned: the ATX vehicles come with 6 different battery options ranging from lead and gel to lithium. If you have special autonomy needs, you can choose from high-capacity battery packs, fast-charge systems or multiple battery packs with a battery swap system.
Electric Utility Vehicles ATX 340E
Electric Utility Vehicles for intensive use in industrial and civil areas loading capacity (chassis): 1.630 kg max. towing capacity: 4.500 kg.
Off road electric vehicles ATX 330E
Zero emission vehicle suitable also for off-road, max negotiable slope: 35%.
Electric Vehicles ATX 320E
ATX320E -The best selling Alke' professional electric vehicle loading capacity (chassis): 610 kg max. towing capacity: 2.000 kg.
Mini Pickup ATX 310E
Small electric vehicle for uses that require tight turning radiuses loading capacity (chassis): 620 kg, towing capacity: 2.000 kg.
Double cab ATX ED
4-seater electric vehicle for transporting both work groups and materials. Load capacity (chassis): up to 1,450 kg.
ATEX Electric Vehicles
Explosion-proof vehicles for potentially explosive areas categories: 2G/2D, 3G/3D, M2.
Ask for prices Catalogue
A new generation of electric vehicles exists that is able to put in the field performances that are on a par with and in certain contests superior to the conventional diesel or petrol vehicles of the same category. It is the case of the ATX E series, professional electrical vehicles designed to be used in the hardest and most demanding conditions.Alke' electrical vehicles combine silence and zero pollution to a real working capacity. It is not by chance that a growing number of sectors are starting conversion procedures of almost their entire fleet of vehicles to high performance electrical vehicles such as the ATX E.
Waste collection vehicles
The greenest and quietest waste collection vehicles for urban areas, sport centres, airports, among others.
Electric box van with roller shutters
Quiet, compact and easy to move around, are used in hospitals, tourist resorts, and catering.
Electric Van
High performance, silent and environmentally friendly: perfect for the transport of goods in urban areas.
It makes a real difference being able to move and operate without limits of time or space within residential areas, tourist structures, parks and golf clubs, just as in areas within civil or commercial airports, without disturbing visitors or operators residing in these areas.The investment for an ATX E is re-paid in average terms by the maintenance costs, which are must lower if compared with equivalent diesel and petrol vehicles: maintenance is almost inexistent and there are noteworthy savings in fuel consumption. Technical life, in working hours, of an electrical vehicle of this type is generally double, if not triple, with respect to a conventional fuel vehicle.
Electric Vehicles News
New in 2025
2025 marks a year of big news with the launch of the new generation of the ATX range: structural and safety improvements.
Cloud: advantages for multi-utilities
With our support, companies can optimise their operational and administrative management.
EVs: how to recharge and cost
This article will explore everything you need to know about recharging at EV power stations.
Electric tractor for greenhouse
Quiet, efficient and environmentally friendly: nurseries and greenhouses are choosing electric vehicles for their daily activities.
From diesel to electric fleet
Electric vehicles are also valuable in critical or disaster situations. Discover the benefits in emergency management.
5 false myths about EVs
In this article, we will dispel five of these myths, with a focus on electric utility vehicles.
Sectors
Vehicles for Tourism
Vehicles for Industry
Vehicles for Agriculture
Vehicles for Public Sector
Vehicles for Logistics
ATEX Explosion-proof vehicles
Services
Electric Vehicles Cloud
Custom electric vehicles
Electric Vehicles Fleet
Electric Express Delivery Vehicles
Utility vehicles
Electric vehicles
Highlights
E-power utility trucks
Electric golf cars
Tail lift truck
Electric truck
How to calculate the road slope?
Electric vehicles: the expert answers your questions
© Alke 2025 - Privacy Policy - Cookie policy - Site Map
P.Iva: IT04355000284 Padova Chamber of Commerce
Tel: +39.049.8702400 +39.049.761208 - Contact