The Eugene O'Neill Newsletter
Editor: Frederick
Wilkins
Suffolk University, Boston
Vol.
V, No. 2
Summer-Fall 1981
(IN THIS
ISSUE)
"ELECTRICITY IS GOD NOW": D. H. LAWRENCE AND O'NEILL
In most critical discussions of Dynamo, The Education of
Henry Adams is cited as the probable source for O'Neill's play.
Travis Bogard, Edwin Engel, John Henry Raleigh, and Louis Sheaffer all
suggest that O'Neill was indebted to Adams.1
A more searching look for influences is an early newspaper article by
Richard Watts, Jr., "Literary Ancestors of Dynamo." Watts
discusses the ubiquitous Henry Adams, but also speculates that the
Capeks' R.U.R. and John Howard Lawson's Processional
were influential predecessors of O'Neill's play.2 As
recounted by the Gelbs, O'Neill himself said that the idea for his
play came from a visit to a hydroelectric plant in Connecticut: "He
had stopped to visit the plant and had retained a vivid image of the
dynamo, 'huge and black, with something of the massive female idol
about it, the exciter set on the main structure like a head with
blank, oblong eyes above a gross, rounded torso,' which he used in the
setting of the last part of the play."3 I suggest, however,
that a hitherto unexamined influence on Dynamo is D. H.
Lawrence's Women in Love, particularly the chapter entitled
"The Industrial Magnate."
That O'Neill read Lawrence's novel cannot be proved. Women in Love
is not among the playwright's personal holdings in the Beinecke at
Yale University or at C. W. Post Centre of Long Island University, but
Mr. David Shoonover, Curator of Yale's Collection of American
Literature, informed me that Carlotta owned a copy.4
Although O'Neill began "making notes" for Dynamo as early as
1924,5 he did not start to work in earnest on the play
until after he and Carlotta sailed for Europe in 1928. It is quite
possible that his future wife introduced him to Lawrence's book,
although the dramatist would surely have had access to the volume
because it was published in New York City in
1920. 6
O'Neill is rarely linked with D. H. Lawrence, although the English
critic and playwright St. John Ervine does just that in a wryly
pejorative fashion: "Mr. O'Neill is, in drama, very much what D. H.
Lawrence is in the novel: force without direction. He lets off an
immense amount of steam, but the train does not move: it still stands
in the station from which it is supposed to be removing at the rate of
seventy or eighty miles an hour."7 Eric Bentley also
connects the two writers: "O'Neill is an acute case of what Lawrence
called 'sex in the head.'"8
Whether O'Neill and Lawrence ever met has not, to my knowledge, been
documented, although Sheaffer quotes from a letter that Bobby Jones
sent to Mabel Dodge in Taos, New Mexico: "I hear you are planning to
have the O'Neills and D. H. Lawrence and me
all together. I warn you that won't work."9 Jones added
that Agnes and Eugene "loathe the idea of Lawrence,"
although--tantalizingly--Jones does not go into any detail. O'Neill's
name is not even mentioned in Lawrence's letters, nor is any meeting
between the two writers recorded in Joseph Foster's D. H. Lawrence
in Taos.10 Presumably, then, O'Neill and Lawrence never
met. Neither is there any indication of Lawrence's opinion of
O'Neill's work; the closest we come to what he might have thought is
found in the novelist's statement that he didn't want to write like
Ibsen or Strindberg.11 Since, however, Lawrence "hated" so
many writers--he said Goethe, Kant, Rousseau, Byron, Baudelaire, Wilde
and Proust were "all on the wrong track"12--we should not
attach too much importance to his singling out for censure the two
dramatists most important to O'Neill.
One wonders, though, why O'Neill would "loathe the idea of Lawrence"
because both writers shared many of the same concerns, especially the
belief that the modern world--be it England or America--was a vast,
decaying wasteland. In a letter to Constance Garnett, Lawrence wrote:
"I think there is no future for England, only a decline and fall. That
is the dreadful and unbearable part of it: to have been born into a
decadent era, a decline of life, a collapsing civilization."13
O'Neill's oft-quoted letter to George Jean Nathan about the genesis of
Dynamo is quite similar: "It is a symbolical and factual
biography of what is happening in a large section of the American
(and not only American) soul right now. It is really the first play of
a trilogy that will dig at the roots of the sickness of today as I
feel it--the death of the old God and the failure of science and
materialism to give any satisfying new one for the surviving primitive
religious instinct to find a meaning for life in, and to comfort its
fears of death with."14
What, then, was to give meaning to life? What could man do to find his
place, to belong? If God is dead--as Nietzsche said--what will fill
the void? In the oldest religions, wrote Lawrence, "the whole
life-effort of man was to get his life into direct contact with the
elemental life of the cosmos...to come into immediate felt
contact... sheer naked contact, without an intermediary or mediator."15
In their writings, both O'Neill and Lawrence try to convey this
"elemental life" and attempt to give meaning to an otherwise
meaningless universe. In this sense, both are religious writers.
Lawrence declared, "[I am] a passionately religious man, and my novels
must be written from the depths of my religious experience."16
And we must not forget O'Neill's comparable statement to Joseph Wood
Krutch: "Most modern plays are concerned with the relation between man
and man, but that does not interest me at all. I am interested only in
the relation between man and God."17
In Dynamo and "The Industrial Magnate" chapter of Women in
Love, Reuben Light and Gerald Crich attempt to understand this
Godless world through the display of power found in electricity. Both
embrace science in defiance of their fathers' beliefs. A wealthy mine
owner, Thomas Crich had always tried to run his coal mines by
Christian precepts:
He was a large employer of labour, he was a great mine-owner. And he
had never lost this from his heart, that in Christ he was one with his
workmen. Nay, he had felt inferior to them, as if they through poverty
and labour were nearer to God than he. He had always the
unacknowledged belief that it was his workmen, the miners, who held in
their hands the means of salvation. To move nearer to God, he must
move towards his miners, his life must gravitate towards theirs. They
were, unconsciously, his idol, his God made manifest. In them he
worshipped the highest, the great, sympathetic, mindless Godhead of
humanity.18
Gerald was always antagonistic to his father--"[He] had feared and
despised his father, and to a great extent had avoided him all through
boyhood and young manhood" (210)--and was much closer to the mother
who, in turn, worshipped him: "Only Gerald, the gleaming, had some
existence for her" (210). Mrs. Crich is as non-Christian and pragmatic
as her husband is humanitarian and idealistic. Theirs is an unhappy
marriage of opposites, as is the Lights' union.
Like Gerald, Reuben rejects the beliefs of his father, a
monomaniacally religious minister "who is the victim of an inner
uncertainty that compensates itself by being
boomingly over-assertive."19 His God is Ephraim Cabot's
eye-for-an-eye, vengeful God of the Old Testament whose awesome
strength is displayed in the crackling lightning
which so terrifies Reverend Light. Rebelling against this
tyrannical conception, Reuben--again like Gerald--feels much closer to
his mother, whose "expression is one of virtuous resignation" and
whose mouth is "rebellious ... determined and stubborn" (422). Reuben
embraces science--electricity--after his mother "betrays" him to his
father. He leaves home, berating Reverend Light's fundamentalist
beliefs and focusing all his attention on the maternal, crooning
figure of the dynamo. O'Neill endows his dynamo with feminine
qualities in an attempt to show that man, bereft of God, has turned to
science as a child turns to its mother: "It's like a great dark
idol...like the old stone statues of gods people prayed to...only it's
living and they were dead...that part on top is like a head... with
eyes that see you without seeing you...and below it is like a
body...not a man's... round like a woman's...as if it had
breasts...but not like a girl...not like Ada...no, like a woman...like
her mother...or mine...a great, dark mother!...that's what the dynamo
is...that's what life is!..." (474)
Gerald is able to express his scorn for conventional
Christianity when his father's illness puts him in charge of the
mines. No Christian charity for Gerald: "Suddenly he had conceived the
pure instrumentality of mankind. There had been so much
humanitarian-ism, so much talk of sufferings and feelings. It was
ridiculous. The sufferings and feelings of individuals did not matter
in the least. They were mere conditions, like the weather. What
mattered was the pure instrumentality of the individual. As a man as
of a knife: does it cut well? Nothing else mattered" (215). No longer
would the mines be run with a thought for the men, since, to Gerald,
"[t]he whole Christian attitude of love and self-sacrifice was old
hat" (219). He saw that "one must have perfect instruments in perfect
organisation, a mechanism so subtle and harmonious in its workings
that it represents the single mind of man, and by its relentless
repetition of given movement will accomplish a purpose irresistibly,
inhumanly. It was this inhuman principle in the mechanism that he
wanted to construct that inspired Gerald with an almost religious
exaltation" (220). Like Reuben's dynamo--whose "song is the hymn of
eternal generation" (482)--Gerald's "great and perfect machine" (220)
represents perfection to him, "one pure, complex, infinitely repeated
motion, like the spinning of a wheel..." (220). And, as it does for
Reuben, electricity becomes Gerald's new religion: "An enormous
electric plant was installed, both for lighting and for haulage
underground, and for power. The electricity was carried into every
mine.... Gerald was [the workers'] high priest, he represented the
religion they really felt" (223). Gerald thinks he can subjugate and
dominate man and nature, but Lawrence clearly shows that he is
worshipping, like Reuben, a false idol.
Substituting science for religion brings both Gerald and Reuben to
insanity. Gerald thinks, "What he was doing seemed supreme, he was
almost like a divinity. He was a pure and exalted activity" (224). But
with the success at the mines, he realizes his own
superfluousness: "He was afraid, in mortal dry fear, but he knew not
what of. He looked at his own face. There it was, shapely and healthy
and the same as ever, yet somehow, it was not real, it was a mask. He
dared not touch it, for fear it should prove to be only a composition
mask.... He was afraid that one day he would break down and be a
purely meaningless bubble lapping round a darkness" (224-225). Reuben,
too, is radically changed when he trades God the Father for Dynamo the
Mother: "In contrast to his diffident, timid attitude of before, his
manner is now consciously hard-boiled. The look on his face emphasizes
the change in him. It is much older than his years, and it is apparent
that he has not grown its defensive callousness without a desperate
struggle to kill the shrinking boy in him. But it is in his eyes that
the greatest change has come. Their soft gray-blue has become chilled
and frozen, and yet they burn in their depths with a queer devouring
intensity" (457). Embracing science brings destruction and
self-loathing to both men.
Although "The Industrial Magnate" contains the most explicit
expression of Gerald's obsession with science, Lawrence uses
electricity as a metaphor throughout the novel to describe sexual
attraction. For example, when Gerald is about to make a conquest:
"He felt full of strength, able to give off a sort of electric
power.... The electricity was turgid and voluptuously rich.... He
would be able to destroy her utterly in the strength of his discharge"
(57-58). And a few pages later: "Minette sat near to Gerald, and she
seemed to become soft, subtly to infuse herself into his bones, as if
she were passing into him in a black, electric flow. Her being
suffused into his veins like a magnetic darkness.... And as she swung
her head, her fine mane of hair just swept his face, and all his
nerves were on fire, as with a subtle friction of electricity"
(65-66). O'Neill does not use the language of electricity, but he does
show that Reuben's conception of love changes radically after he
rejects God:
Reuben: "What we did was just plain sex--an act of nature--and that's
all there is to it!"
Ada: "Is that all--it means to you?"
Reuben: "That's all it means to any one! What people call love is just
sex--and there's no sin about it!" (469)
Thus, both authors show that conceiving of male/female relationships
in terms of science is destructive, inhuman; "love" becomes a mere
manifestation of sexual currents, of animal attractions.
One of the problems with O'Neill's play is that Reuben is searching
both for Belief and for Mother. He tries to shun his sexual feeling
for Ada because he feels that it is a betrayal of his mother's pure
love. After he sleeps with Ada, the only expiation he can offer is
suicidal immolation: "There is a flash of bluish light about him and
all the lights in the plant dim down until they are almost out and the
noise of the dynamo dies until it is the faintest purring hum.
Simultaneously Reuben's voice rises in a moan that is a mingling of
pain and loving consummation, and this cry dies into a sound that is
like the crooning of a baby and merges and is lost in the dynamo's
hum" (488).
What is striking in both novel and play is the authors' suggestion
that a mother figure is somehow the "answer" to the sterile perfection
of the modern world which is symbolized by electricity. Lawrence does
not emphasize--as O'Neill certainly does--the Oedipal relationship
between Gerald and his mother, but it is significant that, after his
father's death, Gerald sneaks into Gudrun's bedroom and finds a
peculiarly maternal comfort in her
bed: "Like a child at the breast, he cleaved intensely to her, and she
could not put him away.... He was infinitely grateful, as to God, or
as an infant is at its mother's breast" (338). "And she, she was the
great bath of life, he worshipped her. Mother and substance of all
life she was" (337). Unable to find fulfillment either in the
perfectly run mines or in his relationship with Gudrun, Gerald--like
Reuben--commits suicide, curling up (foetus-like) in the freezing
snow.
The conclusion of Dynamo is not successful, as Travis Bogard
and others have pointed out: "No view, Reuben's or that of any other
character, has supremacy at the play's end. The confusion was fatal
and the play ends in an unresolved suspension: does Reuben find God?
or does his death demonstrate 'the general spiritual futility of the
substitute-God search'?"20 Like Yank's fervent embrace of
the gorilla at the end of The Hairy Ape, Reuben's convulsive
grasping of the dynamo surely indicates defeat, a sense which is
underlined by the accusations which the Earth Mother/ Mrs. Fife hurls
at the throbbing--and quite impervious--machine: "What are you singing
for? And I thought you was nice and loved us! You hateful old thing,
you!" (489) Just as Yank's death is barely noticed, so Reuben's
suicide is an infinitesimally small event in an uncaring universe:
"The dynamo's purr has regained its accustomed pitch now. The
lights in the plant are again at their full brightness. Everything
is as before" (489; my italics). Reuben's ecstatic prophecy that
the dynamo's "power houses are the new churches" (477) fails to be
realized.
Early in Women in Love, Gerald is shaken by the views of a
friend:
"The old ideas are dead as nails--nothing there. It seems to me there
remains only this perfect union with a woman--sort of ultimate
marriage--and there isn't anything else."
"And you mean if there isn't the woman, there's nothing?" said Gerald.
"Pretty well that--seeing there's no God."
"Then we're hard put to it," said Gerald. (51)
Realizing that there is no God, Gerald is indeed "hard put to
it," and turns first to science and then to love, but neither offers
him solace. How to "belong" in the modern world is the question posed
by Gerald and Reuben at the onset of their quests, and it remains
unanswered at the conclusion of the novel as well as the play.
--Susan Tuck
1 Travis Bogard,
Contour in Time (New York: Oxford University Press, 1972), p. 319;
Edwin Engel, The Haunted Heroes of Eugene O'Neill (Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1953), pp. 232-234; John Henry
Raleigh, The Plays of Eugene O'Neill (Carbondale, Ill.:
Southern Illinois University Press, 1965), pp. 246-248; Louis Sheaffer,
O'Neill: Son and Artist (Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1973),
pp. 306-307.
2 New York Herald
Tribune, 24 February 1929, VII, 5.
3 Arthur and Barbara
Gelb, O'Neill (1962; rpt. New York: Harper & Row, 1973), pp.
675-676.
4 Personal letter from
David Shoonover to Susan Tuck, 23 October 1980. The volume is
inscribed: "Carlotta Monterey, Dec. 28th 1921."
5 Sheaffer, p. 147.
6 Lawrence had had
considerable problems with censorship when he published The Rainbow
and was faced with opposition when he tried to publish Women in
Love: "[I]t seems the book will not find a publisher in England at
all. Indeed, nobody will print me nowadays, the public taste is averse
from me. It is a nasty quandary. The books I have don't sell, so it's
a bad look-out" (The Letters of D. H. Lawrence, ed. Aldous
Huxley [New York: Viking Press, 1936], p. 395). Lawrence chose to
bring out the volume in the United States because the censors were
less rigorous.
7 St. John Ervine, "At
the Play," The Observer, 13 June 1937.
8 Eric Bentley,
"Trying to Like O'Neill," in O'Neill and His Plays: Four Decades of
Criticism, ed. Oscar Cargill, N. Bryllion Fagin and William J.
Fisher (New York: New York University Press, 1961), p. 344.
9 Sheaffer, pp. 96-97.
10 Joseph Foster,
D. H. Lawrence in Taos (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico
Press, 1972).
11 Foster, p. 185.
12 Foster, p. 185.
13 The Collected
Letters of D. H. Lawrence, ed. Harry T. Moore, 2 vols. (New York:
Viking Press, 1962), I, 383.
14 The American
Mercury, 16 (1929), 119.
15 "New Mexico,"
Phoenix: The Posthumous Papers of D. H. Lawrence, ed. Edward D.
McDonald (New York: Viking Press, 1936), pp. 146-147.
16 The Letters of
D. H. Lawrence, ed. Huxley, p. 192.
17 Joseph Wood Krutch,
"Introduction," Nine Plays by Eugene O'Neill (New York: The
Modern Library [Random House], 1954), p. xvii.
18 D. H. Lawrence,
Women in Love (1920; rpt. New York: Viking Press, 1974), p. 207.
Subsequent references will be included parenthetically within the
text.
19 Eugene O'Neill,
Plays (New York: Random House, 1954), p. 422. Subsequent
references will be included parenthetically within the text.
20
Bogard, p. 321.
(IN THIS ISSUE)
© Copyright
1999-2007 eOneill.com