Home | University of Texas at Austin
retweet icon
bullhorn icon
reply icon
info icon
flickr icon
tumblr icon
vimeo icon
reddit icon
podcast icon
angle-down icon
angle-left icon
angle-right icon
angle-up icon
ban icon
hamburger icon
book icon
bookmark icon
bug icon
caret-down icon
caret-left icon
caret-right icon
caret-up icon
chain icon
check icon
check-circle icon
chevron-down icon
chevron-left icon
chevron-right icon
chevron-up icon
circle icon
circle-o icon
clone icon
close icon
download-cloud icon
code icon
download icon
ellipsis icon
envelope icon
warning icon
external-link icon
eye icon
eye-slash icon
facebook icon
github icon
google-plus icon
heart icon
heart-o icon
home icon
info-circle icon
instagram icon
linkedin icon
lock icon
medium icon
minus-circle icon
send icon
pause-circle icon
play-circle icon
plus-circle icon
question-circle icon
quote-left icon
quote-right icon
rss-square icon
search icon
share-alt icon
slack icon
snapchat icon
ticket icon
twitter icon
wheelchair icon
youtube icon
Skip to main content
The University of Texas at Austin
Menu
Header: Audiences
Students
Faculty & Staff
Families & Visitors
Alumni
Athletics
Search
Header: Utility links
Maps
Directory
UT Direct
Give
Apply
The University of Texas at Austin
About
Academics
Academic Experience
Areas of Study
Extended Campus
Cockrell School of Engineering
College of Education
College of Fine Arts
College of Liberal Arts
College of Natural Sciences
College of Pharmacy
Dell Medical School
Graduate School
Jackson School of Geosciences
LBJ School of Public Affairs
McCombs School of Business
Moody College of Communication
School of Architecture
School of Civic Leadership
School of Information
School of Law
School of Nursing
Steve Hicks School of Social Work
Undergraduate College
Admission & Aid
Be a Longhorn
What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us.
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
School of Law Admissions
Dell Medical School Admissions
Campus Visits
Financial Aid
Tuition & Costs
Campus Life
Honor the Horns
Honesty, integrity and respect — three words that embody the Longhorn spirit and help make UT Austin one of the best universities in the world.
Learn more
Arts & Culture
Campus Destinations
Health & Well-being
Housing & Dining
Life in Austin
Report Misconduct
Safety & Security
Student Involvement
Research & Innovation
TEXAS Energy
Led by top-ranked schools, multidisciplinary programs and world-class researchers, UT brings together experts from across the university, industry and government.
See Our Impact
Overview
Texas Energy
Texas Entrepreneurship
Texas AI
Medical Center
Student Research
Units & Centers
Libraries
Off-Campus Research Sites
Experts Guide
News
Pause button
Pause button
WhatStartsHereChangesThe World
UT is America’s Preeminent Energy University
Gurley Gift Will Sustain Texas Robotics’ Undergraduate Program as Leader
Research Identifies Key Antibodies for Development of Norovirus Vaccine
UT News
Texas Today Calendar
Impact as Bigas Texas
What starts here changes the world. What starts here can be a new idea in the mind of a single student. What starts here can be a work of art that enriches lives or a discovery that saves them. What starts here can be a new way of doing things, a new perspective on a global challenge. What starts here changes the world.
Join Longhorn Nation
A big-time collegiate experience at the No. 1 public university in Texas. A top-40 world university. One of the top cities in America to live in. More than 170 fields of study and a sky-high alumni-success rate. Longhorn students are having an impact on the world as entrepreneurs and leaders in the community, doing real research and innovating new solutions to important problems. This culture of achievement has led to student success across the Forty Acres and beyond with Longhorn alumni leading in every field.
Admissions
1
Public University
in Texas
170
Fields of Study
Teach, Discover, Lead
The Texas faculty is united by a desire for impact — both on students and in their fields. For 140 years, UT Austin has provided first-class education and world-class research. Attracting the top talent from around the globe, we value a culture of learning, discovery, freedom, leadership, individual opportunity and responsibility to transform lives and society. Living in Austin's not bad either. UT's faculty includes numerous MacArthur, Guggenheim and Carnegie fellows, more than 125 members of national academies, and other winners of globally important prizes such as the Nobel, Pulitzer and Edison. Texas also has a long history of welcoming visiting professors and lecturers to enrich the student experience, from Barbara Jordan to Karl Rove and Matthew McConaughey to Kendra Scott.
Faculty Careers
1201
U.S. & INTERNATIONALPATENTS past 10 years
7198
EXTERNALLY SPONSORED PROJECTS
796
AWARDED IN SPONSORED PROJECTS
796 million dollars
Connect with Austin
Austin is booming, and UT is at the heart of its innovation ecosystem. UT research is a key reason the Austin area is home to Dell, Apple, Google, Tesla and other technology giants. Its vibrant campus — both historic and state-of-the-art — is at the crossroads of technology, the arts, business, medicine, sports and entertainment, and thought leadership of all kinds. Cultural mega-events like South by Southwest and the Austin City Limits Music Festival are outgrowths of this synergy.
Innovation Board
UT Austin strengthens the Texas economy
8.8
8.8 billion dollars
PER YEAR
Partner with us
To change the world, UT needs collaborators. Mission-driven foundations partner with us for impact at scale.  Additionally, UT is a world-class partner and destination for our military, veterans and their families. Industries help take our innovations to market, creating win-win-win situations for themselves, our faculty and society. Discovery to Impact is the connection between campus innovators and industry. We cultivate ideas, uncover pathways to market, and foster commercial collaborations that translate academic research into services, treatments and products that benefit society.  UT can help your company recruit new UT graduates, connect with faculty and research units and meet your philanthropic goals.
BE A LEADER.  BE A LONGHORN.
Earn a Bachelor's Degree
Discover your possibilities with an undergraduate degree from Texas.
Life at TEXAS
Eating, sleeping, working, playing. What is life like at Texas' premier university?
Tuition and Costs
Get a world-class education at an affordable cost.
Visit TEXAS
Everything you need for a successful campus visit.
Earn a Graduate Degree
Come to Texas a grad student. Leave an international expert.
Join a Community
UT strives to create a community that fosters an open and supportive learning, teaching, and working environment. Our strength as a university draws from our wide range of perspectives and experiences.
Search for Faculty Jobs
A university is only as good as its faculty, so we want the best.
Explore Extended Campus
Continuing and Professional Education at Texas.
Search
Search
Connect with UT AustinSubscribe to our newsletter
FacebookFind us on Facebook
X (Twitter)
Find us on X (formerly Twitter)
InstagramSee us on Instagram
LinkedinFind us on Linkedin
YoutubeSee us on Youtube
Starts with you
Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs
Hazing Prevention and Response
Statewide Search
Campus Carry
HEERF/CARES Act Compliance
Texas Homeland Security
Contact
Jobs
Texas Veterans Portal
Counseling and Mental Health
Online Institutional Resumes
Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct)
Disability Resources
Public Forum On Campus
UT System
Emergency Information
Site Policies
Web Accessibility Policy
Fraud, Waste, or Abuse
State of Texas
Web Privacy Policy
© The University of Texas at Austin 2025