Frederic Sackrider Remington - Biography
Skip to Content (Press Enter)
askART
Toggle navigationMenu
askART
Toggle navigationSearch
X
Artists listed by last name:
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ#
Search by:
Recent Auctions
Art for Sale
Advanced Artist Search
Auction RecordsSince 1987
Upcoming at auction
Search by Artist
Sample Auction Records
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Sample Sales Stats
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Sample Artist Signatures
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Help / Contact Us
Research
Search Artists
Search Art for Sale
Search Auctions
Search Auction Houses
Search Galleries / Dealers
Search Museums
Upcoming at Auction
What's my art worth?
Essays
Regional Interests
Artist Groups
Topics
Art Styles
Mediums
Record Stats
Highest auction prices
Record prices by sq inch
Art Glossary
Biographies - write a bio!
Help / Contact Us
Services
Sign Up
Auction Alerts (free)
For Individuals
For Dealers / Galleries
For Auction Houses
For Institutions
Institutions
Museums
Libraries / Schools
Auction Listing Services
Ads on askART
Homepage ads
Artist Pages: Featured Ad
Artist Pages: Art for Sale
Artist Pages: Art Wanted
Alphabet Pages
Help / Contact Us
Subscribe
Sign In
X
Whoa, you've got an older browser! (Or, we've got a glitch...) For a better experience, we recommend a newer browser.
Ok, hide this
Submit a bio
Artist Biography & FactsFrederic Sackrider Remington
Auction RecordsLots (1591)
For Sale (11)
Bio/Info
Free
Alerts
Upcoming (2)
Wanted (18)
Related Artists (24)
Pricing my art
Charts (6)
Dealers
(51)
Signatures (141)
Auction RecordsLots (1591)
Sale / Wanted (11)
Free
Alerts
Bio/Info
RelatedMore Artists (24)
Pricing my art
Charts (6)
Signatures (141)
Frederic Sackrider Remington (1861 - 1909) was active/lived in New York, Kansas, Connecticut.  Frederic Remington is known for Western painting and sculpture, illustration.
Copyright Frederic Remington Museum
Frederic Remington (1861-1909)Excerpt from The American West Reimagined (2021)By Dr. Larry Len PetersonIn his lifetime polymath Frederic Remington was the most successful and famous Western American artist. His immense talents included excelling as an illustrator, author, sculptor, and fine artist.  His was a life tragically cut short.  Born on October 4, 1861 in Canton, a small berg in bucolic upper state New York, he was much influenced by his father Seth Pierpont Remington, a Republican journalist who founded the St. Lawrence Plaindealer.  His father had been a captain in the Civil War, and in 1870 President Ulysses S. Grant appointed him United States Collector of the Port of Ogdensburg, New York.  In 1876 young Frederic enrolled at Highland Military Academy in Worcester, Massachusetts where he studied for the next two years.  Two years later he enrolled at Yale for one year to study in the School of Fine Arts.  His two loves wer
...  [Displaying 1000 of 30872 characters.]
Artist bio
Artist auction records.  askART's database currently holds 1591 auction lots for Frederic Sackrider Remington (of which
1272 auction records sold and 2 are upcoming at auction.)
Artist artworks for sale and wanted.  There are 11
artworks for sale on our website by galleries and art dealers
(including new art for sale).  There are 51
galleries and art dealers listing works of art by Frederic Sackrider Remington as either "Wanted" or "For Sale"
.
Research resources.  askART lists Frederic Sackrider Remington in 7 of its research Essays.
Frederic Sackrider Remington has 141 artist signature examples available in our database.
Similar artists.  There are 24 similar (related) artists for Frederic Sackrider Remington available:
Charles Marion Russell,  Albert Bierstadt,  Joseph Henry Sharp,  Frank Tenney Johnson,  Eanger Irving Couse,  William Leigh,  Thomas Moran,  Oscar Berninghaus,  Olaf Carl Wieghorst,  Carl Clemens Moritz Rungius,  Walter Ufer,  Maynard Dixon,  W Herbert (Buck) Dunton,  Henry Francois Farny,  Olaf Carl Seltzer,  Edward (John Edward) Borein,  Bert Geer Phillips,  Ernest Martin Hennings,  Thomas Hart Benton,  William Bill Gollings,  Robert (Henry Cozad) Henri,  Nicolai Ivanovich Fechin,  NC Wyeth,  Edgar Alwin Payne
Sales Stats.
1591 auction records.
2 upcoming.
Copyright © 1999-2025 askART.com and underlying auction houses. All Rights Reserved. Digital copying of these images and content strictly prohibited; violators will be subject to the law including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
Facts about Frederic Sackrider Remington
Biographies
Essays
Museums
Publications
Keywords
Frederic Sackrider Remington
Born:  1861 - Canton, New York
Died:   1909 - Ridgefield, Connecticut
Known for:  Western painting and sculpture, illustration
Name variants:  Frederik Remingtam, Frederick Sackrider Remington
Featured by:
Coeur d’Alene Art Auction
SOLD FOR A WORLD-RECORD $5,625,000 AT THE COEUR D' ALENE ART AUCTION-RENO! NOW TAKING CONSIGNMENTS!
More info
Cutting out Pony Herds
Featured by:
Scottsdale Art Auction
Estimates of $100,000 - $150,000 available at Scottsdale Art Auction April 11th and 12th, 2025!
More info
Thrust His Lance Through the Body and Rode
Featured by:
Jackson Hole Art Auction
SOLD FOR $1,583,000 - NOW ACCEPTING CONSIGNMENTS!
More info
He Lay Where He Had Been Jerked, Still as a Log
PreviousNext
Frederic Remington (1861-1909)Excerpt from The American West Reimagined (2021)By Dr. Larry Len PetersonIn his lifetime polymath Frederic Remington was the most successful and famous Western American artist. His immense talents included excelling as an illustrator, author, sculptor, and fine artist.  His was a life tragically cut short.  Born on October 4, 1861 in Canton, a small berg in bucolic upper state New York, he was much influenced by his father Seth Pierpont Remington, a Republican journalist who founded the St. Lawrence Plaindealer.  His father had been a captain in the Civil War, and in 1870 President Ulysses S. Grant appointed him United States Collector of the Port of Ogdensburg, New York.&n  ...  Displaying 750 of 30872 characters.
Subscriber Members, please Sign In for artist biographies and for all services.  For non-paying users, good news! Full text bios for all artists are available every Friday.
If you are not currently a member, please See Details about membership.
Contribute to Developing the Biography for Frederic Sackrider Remington
×
Please note: Artists not classified as American in our database may have limited biographical data compared to the extensive information about American artists.
Creating biographies or improving upon them is a work in progress, and we welcome information from our knowledgeable viewers.
If you feel you have worthwhile information you would like to contribute, the following means of submission is the most efficient. We welcome your involvement!
1.  For Premier Dealers and museums already
registered with askART your best approach is to log in, choose the artist (once
he/she is in your list of artists), and submit your biography there. If you are
a dealer or museum not currently registered, please
click here to register, and then you may select your artist and submit
a biography.
2.  For all others who have useful information
about this artist, please email the information to
registrar@askart.com. Please note: All biographies will be fully
viewable on Fridays, but the rest of the week biographies are available only to
subscribers.
Biography Guidelines
When submitting biographical information, we appreciate your consideration of
the following:
Please keep in mind that askART is not a promotional site, and accordingly
biographical information should not be worded for purposes of 'advertising' an
artist.
Our site is about PAINTERS, SCULPTORS, and ILLUSTRATORS. If you do not know a great deal about the
artist, but have noteworthy information to share, we would welcome you to send
it also to registrar@askart.com. It
is rewarding for all of us to see artists' files grow, and others may be eager
to supplement what you have provided.
Non-Dealers and Museums:
Please introduce your information as follows: "The following biographical
information has been provided by Jane Doe, the niece of the artist."
Dealers and Museums will be automatically credited with a link to their
sites.
Just the facts, please. Our editors are trained to
delete any hype or advertising verbiage such as “most famous,”
“internationally renowned,” “extraordinarily beautiful works.”
If you do not know a great deal about the artist,
answer as many of the following questions as you can. Other persons, seeing
your entry, often add to the data. This is how many of the biographies
grow.
Please include in your biography answers to as
many of the following questions as possible:
What are the subjects and styles (and other distinctive
characteristics) for which the artist’s work is best known?
Is the artist identified with any particular art movements, or
artists, who influenced his or her work?
Where, when, and under whom did the artist receive education and
training?
Can you provide all relevant personal background
information on the artist?
In which Art Organizations was the artist a member?
Can you provide a list of all major museum and artist
association exhibitions? (excluding commercial art galleries).
What awards or other recognition did the artist win?
What museums (name, city, and state) currently hold
works by the artist in their permanent collections?
Required: What are the sources for your
information? For books, list title, author, date of publication. (Optional:
cite number of pages and yes/no if there are color images.) For magazine
articles, cite title of article, author, title of publication, date, and page
number if possible.
Required: the name of the person submitting the
information.
Dealer Note: Please enter books, periodicals and museum
references in the space provided. Do not combine book information with
biography.
There are many strong biographies that you may refer to on our website, such as
Cecilia Beaux, Edward Hopper, and Paul Sample. Please do not submit biographies
with minimal facts or excessively promotional writing such as the following
(unusable) wording:
What NOT to send:
"The artist John Doe is the quintessential master
of light, color, and scene. His brilliant canvases are full of feeling, where
love can be felt through all the senses. Through his skillful brushwork, and
drawing from his life experiences, he creates images where the viewer feels he
has truly become one with the subject. Doe's paintings are sure to be sought by
the discriminating collector. I/we have numerous spectacular works by Doe
available for sale."
We appreciate your participation in askART. If you have any questions
about submitting biographies, please send them to registrar@askart.com
Share an image of the Artist.
Copyright© 2000-2025 askART All Rights Reserved®   |   askART is a registered trademark   |Site Terms
Good news! We do not share your data or cookies with 3rd parties for their ads or markerting!  Privacy Policy
Ok, hide this
Top