The Telegraph Office -- A Tribute to Morse Telegraphy and Resource for Wire and Wireless Telegraph Historians and Collectors
For Collectors and Historians   References
Topics
for Collectors
Histories of
the Key
Makers
Topics for
Advanced
collectors
Telegraph
and Wireless
Inventors
History of
the Codes
Nostalgia
and Telegraphic
Poetry
Related
Telecommunications
Resources
Historical and
Fraternal
Organizations
Keys, Bugs, Sounders and Other Telegraphic
Artifacts   Key
Photo Gallery
On-Line
Key
Collections - Domestic
On-Line
Key Collections
- Foreign
Foreign
Key Photo Gallery
Wireless
Photo Gallery
The K5RW
Collection
List
of Domestic Bug Makers
On-Line
Key ID
Museums
Exploring the Many Facets of Telegraphy   Landline
Telegraphy
Wireless
Telegraphy
Submarine
Cable
Telegraphy
Wireless on
the RMS
Titanic
A Tribute to Morse Telegraphy     and     Resource for Wire and Wireless
Telegraph Key Collectors
and Historians         by Neal McEwen, K5RW     [email protected]
Key
Photo Gallery | Wireless
Photo Gallery | On-Line
Key ID  Foreign
Key Photo Gallery | Foreign
Key Photo Gallery Annex | Bibliography  On-Line Museums | FAQ
| Site Map  Copyright © 1996 - 2004, Neal McEwen    Welcome to The Telegraph Office. Whether you are a collector,
historian or have a casual interest in the many facets
of wire and wireless  telegraphy, you will find something of
interest here. Even if you are a newbie, join our community to get essential information the same way as students join various writing websites or services ready to offer a helping hand anytime learners require “write an essay for me” assistance. Many resources
are presented. You should be able find information about an old
telegraph key
or other artifact that you have.  If you have a question,
take a minute to read the Telegraph Office FAQ, Frequently
Asked Questions.  Then send any questions or suggestions to [email protected]  Last updated and link checked 11 September 2004  Guest Book
References for Collectors
and Historians
List
of Semi-Automatic Key (bug) Manufacturers:  Did you know there
were 60 plus makers of bugs in the U.S. alone?  Navy
Telegraph Key and Spark Key Numbering Systems: What do the numbers
on your Navy key mean?  Learn who made it and when.  American
Telegraph Instrument Makers 1837-1900: a reference by Roger Reinke.  List
of Spark Key manufacturers: by Russ Kleinman.  The
"N7CFO
Keyletter" and Cumulative Index: Issues 1 - 37 of the Keyletter
indexed.  The
Dow-Key
bug research project: Documenting the Dow-Key bugs by Lynn
Burlingame
and Tony Rogozinski.  Can you add any information?  "Modern
Practice
of the Electric Telegraph": The complete 1870s book by
Franklin
Pope on-line. Many beautiful engravings of telegraph instruments.  Vintage
J. H. Bunnell
catalog:
thanks to Steve Massy, N6TT.  Types
of Telegraph Instruments: Greg Raven's photos and explanations of
the
various type of instruments.  Jame's
Doty's
list of Telegraph companies: A comprehensive list from the very
beginning
of the telegraph business.  Topics For Collectors
"The Telegraph Office Magazine":  Collecting
Telegraph Instruments  Landline
Telegraph Instruments  Wireless
/ Radiotelegraph Instruments  Submarine
Cable Telegraphy and Instruments   Where
do I find old keys? Tips on where to look plus a trick or two.  Advice
for Beginning Key Collectors: Lynn Burlingame, N7CFO offers sage
advice.  Where
do I find parts for my old keys?  Are you missing a few parts?  Why
"Trade Only"? Breaking the trade barrier with experienced
collectors.  Key
Values: What is your old key worth?  Telegraph
Lore: Information for collectors about telegraphy and tales of days
gone by.  Learn
how to pack a Semi-Automatic key (bug)  On-line Key
and Wireless Collections -- Domestic   The
K5RW Wire and Wireless Telegraph Key Collection and Historical Library:
A description and tour of a private collection with images of unusual
keys.
See the latest
additions to the collection with
supporting documents and photos.  Also see the Key
Photo Gallery, a comprehensive photo review of many types of
keys
and related telegraph instruments. (Must See!)
On-Line
Tour of the Antique Wireless Association's Telegraph Key displays. How
many can you identify?
Hiram
Percy Maxim's Key: ARRL founder and original holder of the W1AW
call sign.  Case
of Keys at entrance to museum  Part
of the Lou Moreau Collection at the museum Annex  Another
Part of the Lou Moreau Collection at the museum annex   More
of the Lou Moreau Collection: A visit to the AWA museum annex to
see
the the Moreau collection. Presented by Greg Raven.  Vibroplex
Collector's
Home Page: Models, Dates, Serial Numbers, and more by Randy Cole.  Pete
Malvasi's Museum of Telegraph and Wireless Instruments: a private
collection
of very old wireless keys and related items.  KA2MGE's
Telegraph
Museum: a private collection of telegraph instruments and signs
advertising
telegraph companies and their services.  The
W1TP Cyber Museum: a private collection with lots and lots of images
of Telegraph Keys plus other information of interest to collectors.  "Sparks
Telegraph Key Review", by Russ Kleinman: an on-line educational
tour
of a private collection.  Pre-1925
wireless artifacts:
A fine collection by John Jenkins.  Western
Historic RADIO
MUSEUM: Commercial and Amateur Wireless Equipment 1910 - 1923,
photo
gallery.  New
England Wireless and
Steam Museum On-line Key
and Wireless Collections -- Foreign   Fons
Vanden Berghen's 19th Century European Telegraph Instruments: A
sample
of Fons' collection courtesy of Greg Raven.  Larry
Rice's museum of Australian 'jiggers' (slang for 'bug' down under).  Foreign
Key Photo Gallery: A sampling of European keys from the K5RW
Collection,
by Neal McEwen
Featured keys from the Foreign Key Photo Gallery:
Ducretet
& Roger spark key: c. 1914 -1919, unusual French "oil break"
design.
Swiss
PTT "silent key" c. 1920.
Photo
of British Highland regiment with visual signalling equipment, c.
1898.
French
spark key with two sets of high current contacts: c. 1908 - 1916.
Foreign
Key Photo Gallery Annex: More European and Australian keys from the
K5RW Collection, by Neal McEwen
Thomas
Scherrer's
On-line Morse Key Collection: by OZ2CPU of Denmark.  The
New Zealand Morse Key Pages: by David Smith, ZL2BBB.  Historical
Morse Museum: by Ludwig, DK5KE of Germany.  Swedish
PTT Instrument Collection:: Includes early Morse register, Hughes
printing
telegraph, Marconi transmitter, telephones and more.  Histories of the Key Makers
The
J. H. Bunnell Company : 100+ Years of making Telegraph
Instruments.
Maker of the sideswiper, Gold Bug, steel lever key and many others.  Charles
Williams, Jr.: The most prolific and influential key maker of the
mid
19th century.  T.
R.
McElroy: maker of the "MAC-KEY" and famous '"teardrop" keys and
bugs
and World's Champion Radio Telegrapher; the man, the legend and the
keys! Photo
of McElroy and staff of WSO / WCC c. 1920.  George
M. Phelps: Besides making beautiful keys, Phelps was a developer of
printing telegraphs and technical director of Western Union in the mid
19th century.  George
M. Phelps: More on Phelps by John Casale, W2NI, from Phelps' home
town.  Thomas
Edison: The teenage telegrapher became a telegraph engineer an
telegraph
instrument maker before becoming the premier inventor of the 19th
century.  The
Eddystone bug story: Only 500 of these unusual British bugs made
--Extract
from Morsum Magnificat:  Landline Telegraph History -- American Morse   The
history of women in telegraph service: a well researched web page
by
Thomas Jepsen.  Library of
Congress
--
Samuel F. B. Morse papers: 50,000 images from the Morse collection
on-line.  A
look the early landline telegraph fraternity -- humor, friendship and
"hog
Morse" on the wire:  From a McClure Magazine article, 1902.  Time,
Standard Time and Western Union: by Ed Trump, railroader and
telegrapher  Was
the Cumming Key ever made?  The
Wizard Key and Dinger Bug: two very unusual keys !!!  The
Era of Morse Telegraphy: An account of the glory days by one who
lived
it.  KPH/KFS shuts down.   The
Aurora Borealis and the Telegraph: How did the Northern Lights
effect
telegraph lines?  Australian
Overland Telegraph Line: History of Telegraphy and Telegraphists
from
down under by Larry Rice, Australian telegraph historian.  Morse
Register image: predecessor of the telegraph sounder, circa 1844.  The
Harmonic Telegraph, 1881:  The
Yetman Transmitter: telegraph or typewriter?  The
Railroads
and The Telegraph: an historical account of their maturation
together.  Image
of the Morse / Vail key: Used on the Washington to Baltimore line
in
1844.  Restoring
Telegraph Service after the great San Francisco earthquake of 1906:  History
of the Boston Fire Alarm Telegraph System: An early application of
telegraph technology.  Needles
and Wires: the early telegraph systems before the Morse system.  Early
English Telegraph Cables.  A
short history of Western Union:  Image
of register tape "What hath God wrought?":  Click on the image
for a full size image.  Library of
Congress
on-line.  Old Photos
of Telegraph Operators
and Telegraph Offices  (Must See!) Teenage
telegrapraphers during WWII:
Young boys and girls answered their countrie's call when older men were
called to war.  Sid Reith and Bryan Robinson tell their story.  ORT Headquarters:
photo of the Organization of Railroad Telegraphers building, c. 1880s
in
St. Louis.  Originally the Cupples mansion.  Became ORT
building
sometime after 1908.  Photo
of T. R. McElroy and staff of WSO / WCC, c. 1920.  Cable
office at Canso, Nova Scotia: a priceless photo of the inside of
the
office, c. 1910?  Photo
of Telegraph Maintenance crew: c. 1912.  Charlie DeVore is
second
from the right on the top row in both photos.  Second
photo.  Thanks to Karen Kane for the photos of her
great-grandfather.  Early U. S. Navy
Communications photo: circa 1918, notice DeForest detector and
Western
Electric amplifier.  Photo
of British Highland regiment with visual signalling equipment, c.
1898. Photo
of Postal Telegraph office in Mineral Wells, Texas: c. 1927.
Why the hole in the ceiling?   Riggers at KPH/KFS:
The men with nerves of steel who maintained the antennas.  Thanks
to Denise Stoops, former KPH/KFS operator.  Learning
the code at Camp Wadsworth, South Carolina in 1917:  From an
old
postcard.  Wireless Telegraphy
(pre-1920)  General: Early
U. S. Navy
Communications photo: circa 1918, notice DeForest detector and
Western
Electric amplifier.  The
Marconi
Wireless Station at Cape Cod, Mass.:  A short history.  Marconi
National Historic Site: Cape Breton, Canada.  U.S.
Marconi
Museum and Library: Bedford, N.H.  Marconi Calling: A
look at
Guglielmo Marconi's life, discoveries, influence on modern
communications. Requirements
for advancement for Naval radio operators during W.W.I.:
Could you have made Chief Petty Officer?  (Must See!) A
remarkable collection of very old wireless documents by Thomas White.  An
unusual artifact from the Tidewater Wireless Telegraph Co.   Damped Wave (Spark):  Concise
History of Spark Gap Transmitters: superb diagrams and early photos.  Ducretet
& Roger spark key: c. 1914-1919, unusual French "oil break"
design  The
Marconi "Grasshopper" key:  A mechanical and electrical
description
from a 1903 wireless book.  A
Quenched Spark Gap, c. 1920  An
unusual spark key by General Radio, c. 1918  "Rescue
at Sea":  the story of Jack Binns, RO and the sinking of
Republic
by PBS.  "Boys
of Wireless": PBS article on the attraction of young men to
wireless
before W.W.I.   Undamped Wave (CW or Continuous Wave):  Photo
of Ted McElroy and staff of WSO / WCC: c. 1920, Alexanderson site.  Relay
Key from a U.S. Navy Federal Telegraph arc transmitter, c. 1919..  History
of the Poulsen Arc wireless transmitter : RF from an arc of
electricity?  Interview
with Dr. Leonard Fuller: Federal Telegraph chief engineer c. 1913
and
developer of high powered arcs. IEEE document.  Radiotelegraphy
and Maritime
Radiotelegraphy (post-1920)    Q-signals:
Perhaps the first listing from a professional wireless telegrapher's
handbook,
1909.  The
History of KFS: a long time maritime wireless station on the West
Coast.  "How
to Pass U.S. Government Wireless License Examinations": Amateur and
commercial test requirements taken from 1922 RCA license manual.  End
of Commercial Morse: A touching account by Dick Dillman.  "The
Art &
Skill
of Radio-Telegraphy":
by Bill Pierpont -- online book  The Bliley
Crystal
Story: Earlier supplier of radio crystals.  Amateur
Wireless Operator's Guide:  From an unknown clipping, c. 1930.  The
first amateur
trans-Atlantic tests: History by the Radio Club of America.  Radiograms
and the duties of a merchant marine Radio Officer: by Jerry Proc,
VE3FAB. Radio
Officer's radiogram 'abstract' from S.S. Cities Service Denver, KDNN,
1940: A required log of messages sent and received including
charges and message class.  Abstract
- side two.  Abstracts explained.   SS
Rider Victory
Radio Room: W.W.II era ship's radio room restored.  Take a
three
dimensional tour.  Portishead
Radio: A look at the busiest ship to shore station in wireless
history,
by Jerry Proc, VE3FAB.  Wireless on the RMS
Titanic   A
description of
the Titanic's Radio Room and Antenna:  The
"Wireless
Telegraphists" and Their Work: by Dave Gittins  The
Titanic's first radio contact: The Tenerife Coast Station and
Titanic,
by Jerry Proc, VE3FAB.  A
Key like used on the Titanic: A reproduction of the Marconi key
made
from photos and measurements of the key from the Titanic's sister ship
Olympic.  Made by Don, W2CUV, now a Silent Key.  Schematic
Diagram of Titanic Wireless Room:  Details of the 5 KW rotary
spark transmitter, Marconi triple tuner, magnetic detector, keys and
battery
back up rig with ten inch spark coil.  Thanks to Francisco Jose
Dávila
Dorta, EA8EX, wireless historian.  "SOS,"
"CQD" and the History of Maritime Distress Calls: With a glimpse of
how they were used on the Titanic.  Anecdote
about
Harold Bride, surviving Marconi wireless operator: Plus more of the
disaster story.  The
Titanic Story from the radio operators perspective: A 1929 article
from Radio magazine.  Told by Bill Breniman, wireless pioneer and
long time president of the Society of Wireless Pioneers.
Discusses
aspects of the disaster overlooked today.  TITANIC
Tragedy Spawns Wireless Advancements: A look at the tragedy from
several
viewpoints, by Ray Minichiello, P.E., (W1BC), Chairman, The Guglielmo
Marconi
Foundation, U.S.A., & The U.S. National Marconi Museum.  Titanic
Inquiry Project:
Transcripts of both the American Senate Hearings, and the British Board
of Trade Inquiry into the sinking of the RMS Titanic.  Includes
testimony
of G. Marconi and Titanic wireless operator Harold Bride.  Submarine Cable Telegraphy    Porthcuno
Mesuem of Submarine Telegraphy: See the display of old cable
instruments.  Atlantic
Cable
piece:
c. 1879.  Given as a commemorative gift to cable company dignitary  Atlantic
Cable
Site:
An excellent bibliography, photos of Cyrus Field, cable postage stamps
and more, by Bill Burns.  History
of the Cable station at Canso and Hazel Hill: An early cable
station
documented by a extremely well done Canadian effort.  "The
Atlantic Cable" by Bern Dibner's 1959: an on-line book.  A
primer on submarine cables by the Smithsonian.  Cable
office at Canso, Nova Scotia: A priceless photo of the inside of
the
office c. 1910?  Used with permission.  Cable
map of the North Atlantic: Shows route of cables between the old
world
new world, c. 1880.  The
Bottom of the Ocean Is "Main Street" to Him: A cable ship captain
recalls
thirty years of repairing cables in the North Atlantic -- a fascinating
story, c. 1925!  History
of Irish Cable stations and cable laying ships.  "Ocean
Telegraph March" - 1858 Instrumental by Francis H Brown: Ornate
sheet
music cover honoring the laying of the first trans-Atlantic cable.  Advertisements by Cable Companies: from 1921 issue of Telegraph
and
Telephone Age
All
American Cables: connecting the Americas.  Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co.: "The Pulse of the World."  Western
Union: telegrams and cablegrams.  Commercial
Cable Co: with map of cable routes.  Topics for Advanced Collectors   "Big
Deals" and "Little Deals": A look at the factors influencing key
prices;
how to find a key for a reasonable price.  Disposing
of your key collection: Do you and your heirs know what to do when
you pass on?  Being
a good caretaker of your keys: Are you documenting the history and
stories of your keys?  What will happen to those stories when the
next caretaker owns your keys?   Military Telegraph History   SOS
Wheel from "Gibson Girl": Taken from a life raft of a downed U. S.
Army Air Force B-17 bomber.  Notice how teeth on the perimeter of
the whell form the letters "SOS."  Also note the long "key down"
period so the DF (direction finding) crews could get a fix on them.   The
Fullerphone by Louis Meulstee: Unique telegraphic device developed
during W.W.I.  "Secret
Wires",
Civil War Telegraphy, by Fred Chesson. Signal
Corps Association
Reenactors' Division (SCARD): A Civil War reenactor's group.
Photo
of British Highland regiment with visual signalling equipment, c.
1898.    Marine siginaling
unit with French Blue Devils early in W.I.I:  War Dept. photo.  Requirements
for advancement for Naval radio operators during W.W.I.:
Could you have made Chief Petty Officer?  The
Signal Corps
J-38 key:
An informative analysis of a common W.W.II. surplus key, by K6IX.  Military
keys from
around the
world: from the Military Radio home page.  Telegraphic Codes   The three codes
used in
early wireless service: The American Morse code, the Continental
Code, (later know as the International code)
and U. S. Navy code.     Q-signals:
Perhaps the first listing from a professional wireless telegraphers
handbook,
1909..  Morse
Code or Vail Code? Did Samuel F. B. Morse invent the code as we
know
it today? What Franklin Pope knew.  Morse's Magnetic Telegraph "The perfect success of professor Morse's Electro Magnetic Telegraph
has excited the
astonishment and admiration of the community. The most incredulous have
been convinced, and occurring at the time they have done, the
experiments
have satisfied the public that the Magnetic Telegraph is not merely a
beautiful
illustration of a philosophical principle, but an agent that may be
made
of practical and every day utility in the business transaction of the
country."  A commentary on Samuel F. B. Morse's Washington to Baltimore
telegraph
line and its ability to report news instantaneously. from Exeter New
Hampshire
News Letter, July 1, 1844.  Telegrams and Radiograms    "How
to Write Telegrams Properly": A 1928 booklet on the effective use
of
telegrams. How telegrams were authored, sent and delivered. Radio Officer's radiogram 'abstract' from S.S. Cities
Service Denver, KDNN, 1940: A required log of messages sent and
received including charges and message class.  Abstract - side two.  Abstracts explained.  Western
Union credit card: See John Bell's card giving him "franking"
privelidges."  Western
Union frank, 1879: Notice the colors and penmanship!  James
Doty's
sampling of telegrams: Some old and beautiful examples.  Telegram
Collecting :
History of the telegram from an Australian perspective.  Dollygram:
Doll delivered with a Western Union telegram, c. 1960-70. Detail
of W.U.Tel.Co line on doll.  Radiograms
and the duties of a merchant marine Radio Officer: by Jerry Proc,
VE3FAB.  Using your Landline Telegraph
Instruments   Dial
Up Morse Telegraphy: how to use a modem to connect your key with
others
using American Morse.  Morse Dial-Up
Hub: one of two dial-up hubs in North American. See Ed
Trump passing traffic with a 'mill.'  Adjusting
a bug: Learn how to adjust a bug for perfect sending, the Army way.  The
Art
of
Side-Swipery:  How to use a sideswiper, plus a bit of history,
by Jerry L. Bartachek, KD0CA.  The
Mill:
A program for your PC that teaches you American Morse code.  By
Jim
Farrior, W4FOK.  Telegraph and Wireless Inventors
Morse's
Telegraph Register Patent Model , patented May 1, 1849, patent
number 6,420.  Morse's
obituaries: New York Times and Washington Evening Star, April 1872.  Franklin
Pope: 19th century inventor and entrepreneur.  Heroes
of the Telegraph: Biographies of telegraph inventors and
entrepreneurs
written by John Munro, 1891.  Lee
DeForest : Wireless pioneer and Inventor of the triode tube.  Alexander
Graham Bell: Telegraph patent 174,465.  Alexanderson:
he made very high power transmitters with AC machinery.  Edwin H.
Armstrong:
Armstrong (father of regenerative receivers and FM radio) home page;
many fine
photos
of early gear and documents from the Harry Houck collection.  The
wireless experiments of J.C.Bose: He predated Marconi.  Well
researched
IEEE paper by Darrel Emerson.  Nostalgia and Telegraphic Poetry
The
Banana Boat Swing and other Distinctive Fists.  Three
Telegraphic Poems of the 19th century: Besides being a great
electro-physicist,
James C. Maxwell was quite a poet.  Two
Wireless Poems of the early 20th century: Are all wireless
operators
romantics?  Two
Telegraphic Poems: by telegrapher Jerry Newton (1846-1917).  "Reminiscing":
An old time shipboard radio operator looks back to the early days of
wireless.  Code
Ode: A beautiful poem about Morse code and those who love it.  Oldest
Surviving Associated Press Telegrapher: Aubrey Keel, W0AKL, a
walking
encyclopedia of telegraph history.  Worlds
Fastest Telegrapher on a straight key: The story of Harry Turner,
an
extract from Morsum Magnificat.  The K5RW Wire
and Wireless Telegraph Key Collection
and Historical Library
Read
about the K5RW Collection: a private collection
of telegraph keys and reference material with photos of unusual keys.  Visit
the K5RW Home Page: Who is K5RW?  Keys
Wanted: trying to fill some holes in the collection! Can you help?
Got anything for sale?  Duplicate
List: a few duplicates for trade. Would you like to swap keys?
Here
are some good ones!  Books
Wanted: trying to find new research material.  Help
me ID this Galvanometer: A very attractive and unique British
instrument.  Recent acquisitions with
photos and
detailed documentation:
(NEW) French
spark key with two sets of high current contacts: c. 1908 - 1916.  (NEW) Swiss
PTT "silent key": c. 1920.
Photo
of British Highland regiment with visual signalling equipment, c.
1898.
Ducretet
& Roger spark key: c. 1914-1919, unusual French "oil break"
design.
Atlantic
Cable piece: c. 1879.
Wilson
Royal Canadian Air Force Right Hand / Left Hand bug, c. W.W.II.
Charles
Williams camelback key, c. 1860s.
T.
A. Edison key, c. 1870.
Vibroplex
Junior, c. 1921.
Electrical
Construction Co. S.F. key, c. 1870s.
An
unusual spark key by General Radio, c. 1918.
A
quenched spark gap, c. 1920.
Relay
Key from a U.S. Navy Federal Telegraph arc transmitter, c. 1919.
Historical and Fraternal Organizations   SOWP home page: Society
of
Wireless Pioneers -- Former Commercial and Military radiotelegraphers.  QCWA home page:
Quarter
Century Wireless Association -- Hams radio operator for 25 or more
years.  OOTC home
page:
Old Old Timer's Club -- Those with a wireless experience 40 or more
years
ago.  VWOA home page:
Veteran
Wireless Operators of America.  Check out their scrapbook of old
time wireless operators and the equipment
they used.  Morse
Telegraph Club: Organization of former Landline Telegraphers.  Maritime
Radio
Historical
Society:  Restoring KPH/KFS.  Signal
Corps Association
Reenactors' Division (SCARD): A Civil War reenactor's group.  Related Telecommunications Resources    Insulator
Collecting:
glass survivors of the Telegraph and Telephone Age.  Early
and Unusual Telegraph Insulators: Extremely well researched with
Excellent
Photos.  Telephone
Collectors
Home Page : about the Old Phones and Collectors Activities.  Cyber
Telephone
Museum:  Antique
Light
Bulb
Collectors Page: Old and unusual light globes.  QCWA
On-Line Amateur
Radio Museum: Quarter Century Wireless Association.  Postage
Stamps
and Post Marks representing telegraph and radio:  Very nice
collection
of stamps  Online
Morsum
Magnificat: a
journal devoted to Morse Code, old and
new; a great work by Tony Smith.  Student Information   Build
a simple telegraph set: a science fair or school science project;
thanks
to W1TP.  Code
Practice Oscillator and Homemade
Key from Arthur Nilson's 1942 book on code.  Telegraph
Projects
for Students:  Return to
the Main Menu
counter courtesy of Web
Counter Thanks for visiting The Telegraph
Office.