Errey - definition and meaning
Community
Word of the day
Random word
Log in or Sign up
Errey
love
Define
Relate
List
Discuss
See
Hear
Errey
Define
Relate
List
Discuss
See
Hear
unLove
Definitions
Sorry, no definitions found. You may find more data at errey.
Etymologies
Sorry, no etymologies found.
Support
Help support Wordnik (and make this page ad-free) by adopting the word Errey.
Examples
"On a 5-on-3 situation, he's the best defender in the front of the net in the National Hockey League, and I've been saying that for two years," said former Penguins player Bob Errey, now a television analyst for the team.
Pittsburgh's Scuderi has been difficult to miss in playoffs  2009
Errey said Scuderi is at his best in penalty-killing situations because he takes away the cross-crease pass and always seems to know where everyone is on the ice.
Pittsburgh's Scuderi has been difficult to miss in playoffs  2009
"He is always in position to match the speed of the opposing forward coming in, and that was important against a player like Ovechkin," Errey said.
Pittsburgh's Scuderi has been difficult to miss in playoffs  2009
"Bylsma is cut from that same kind of cloth," Errey said.
Pittsburgh's Scuderi has been difficult to miss in playoffs  2009
Former Pittsburgh player Bob Errey, now a broadcaster, called Scuderi the "best 5-on-3 defenseman" in the league.
Most popular: 25 free agents who'll draw plenty of interest  2009
Errey: Reliable and responsible, played bigger than he was.
post-gazette.com - News  2010
Errey: "The Hobey Baker winner went down ... real hard."
Fanhouse Main  2009
Toumaz Technology CEO Keith Errey will be delivering a key insight into the future of end-to-end digital healthcare systems in a conference session on Monday 22nd September at 13: 00pm (Session No S298848, Westin SF Market Street, Room Metropolitan III).
Press Releases  2008
Toumaz Technology CEO Keith Errey will be delivering a key insight into the future of end-to-end digital healthcare systems.
Embedded Star  2008
Toumaz Technology CEO Keith Errey to Present Vision for Digital Medicine Future at Oracle OpenWorld 2008
Press Releases  2008
Related Words
Log in or sign up to add your own related words.
Wordmap (beta)
Word visualization
Comments
Log in or sign up to get involved in the conversation. It's quick and easy.
Company
About Wordnik
Press
Colophon
FAQ
T-shirts!
News
Blog
Word of the day
Community
@wordnik@wordnik.social
Dev
API
github.com/wordnik
Et Cetera
Send Us Feedback!
Need Support?
Terms
Privacy
Random word
Advanced Search
Wordnik is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, EIN #47-2198092.