About us - Parc Jean-Drapeau
FR
EN
Store
The Parc
Vibe to 150 years of the Parc!
A bit of history
Public Art
Wildlife
Photos and videos
Sustainable development
A sustainable and responsible outdoors
Master Forestry Plan
Visitors
Activities and events
Getting to the Parc
Practical info
Parking
Food Court
Restrooms
Frequently asked questions
Free Wi-Fi
Customer service
Information Center
Universal accessibility
Report a lost item
Day camps
Venues
Venues
Corporate Events
Wedding
Rental halls
La Toundra
Pavillon de la Jamaïque
Le Belvédère du Paddock
Espace Paddock
Request for information →
Other services
Filming and photo-taking
Team building
Société du parc Jean-Drapeau
About us
Careers
The futur of the Parc
Development projects and works
Resources
Publications
Diffusion de l'information
Appels d'offres et avis d'intention
Sponsorship request
Contact Us
Head Office
Form
Contacts
Customer Service
514 872-6120
Emergency and security
514 872-9999
Jean-Doré Beach
514 872-0199
Aquatic Complex
514 872-7368
Athletes' Quarters
514 872-6222
All contact details →
#ParcJeanDrapeau
Netiquette
Terms of use
Privacy Statement
Notices
Mobility
Works: Rue des Seagulls becomes a one-way street
Published on Friday, January 31, 2025
Rue des Seagull is one-way between Macdonald Road and Parking lot P11 due to the establishment of a pedestrian detour that provides access to the Biosphere.The work taking place at the Biosphere should be completed by early June 2025.Delays and detours to be expected, reduce your speed and follow the directions of the traffic signs.
See all notices →
On page:
Mission
Executive team
Board of directors
Committees
Mobility
About us
Mission
The mission defines the role of the organization, justifies its existence and steers all the activities.
Established by the City of Montréal, the Société du parc Jean-Drapeau has a mission to preserve, plan, promote and develop this major urban park, oversee the healthy coexistence of activities which occur there and ensure its longevity for current and future generations.
Vision
The vision globally describes the image that the Parc wishes to become at the end of a 10-year horizon.
In 2030, Parc Jean-Drapeau has reinvented itself to become one of the parks that is emblematic of the city. The Parc is highly regarded for the diversity of its individual and collective experiences it offers in conjunction with nature, landscapes, history, culture and sports.
It is a laboratory of best practices in sustainable development; it celebrates its heritage; it is a distinctive destination; it is a source of pride for Montréal's society. It is an engaged leader, geared toward excellence, a unifier of partnerships and involved in its community.
Guiding principles
The guiding principles serve as the rules of conduct and oversee the organization's operational process and major strategic decisions.
Respect the environment and ensure the ecological transition
Preserve the area and promote the heritage aspect
Promote diversity and inclusion
Strive for excellence, accountability and integrity in its practices
Act in partnership
Design principles
The design principles translate the action rules which ensure the implementation of the development projects.
Position the Parc on a metropolitan and regional scale
Celebrate the Parc's insular nature
Promote the rich patrimonial heritage
Showcase the aquatic landscapes and their ecosystems
Promote the diversity and connectivity of the ecosystems
Ensure the continuity of the Parc's landscape experiences
Emphasize the mobility experiences to discover the Parc
Areas of development
The areas of development set the priorities of action from which the triennial action plans unfold
Infrastructures and buildings
Mobility
Layout
Programming
Sports and the urban outdoors
Strategic orientations
Strategic orientations provide the direction to follow to achieve the mission.
Sustainable development
Conservation
Open governance
Innovation
Citizens' experience
Reconciliation
Executive team
Management of Parc Jean-Drapeau is predicated on the park's vocation of administrating recreational as well as cultural activities, along with fulfilling its vision as a major international tourist destination.
With more than 80 events to host, the presence of major partners, and more than 65 buildings to administrate and maintain, the management of Parc Jean-Drapeau is notable for its experienced and well-rounded staff.
Under the leadership of the general manager, the guidelines and policies established by Parc Jean-Drapeau's board of directors are implemented by the various departments.
Véronique Doucet, BAA, MAP, ASC
Directrice générale
Josée Chiasson, MBA
Directrice générale adjointe — Développement et partenariats stratégiques
Lisiane Lafortune, CRIA
Directrice principale — Ressources humaines
Isabelle Mercille, Avocate, LL.B
Directrice principale — Communications et expérience citoyenne
Jean-François Mathieu, CPA
Directeur principal — Services administratifs
Nicolas Godin-Corriveau
Directeur principal — Exploitation
David Bourget
Directeur principal adjoint — Exploitation
Philippe Valois
Directeur principal adjoint — Communications et expérience citoyenne
Board of directors
The SPJD's board of directors is named by the City of Montréal's Executive Committee. There are nine seats on the board, and the members oversee the governance of the Société and adopt the strategic guidelines implemented by the Société. Supported by the three committees in place, the board oversees the proper management of the Société.
The Société reports on a regular basis to the City of Montréal's Executive Committee, for its operational budget and financial results, as well as for the planning and management of the triennial capital expenditures program (PTI). Any expenditure exceeding two million dollars or any contract exceeding 5 years in length must be submitted to the City's Executive Committee for approval.
Karel Mayrand
PresidentCEO, Fondation du Grand Montréal
Daisy Dedeian
Vice PresidentSenior Director — Operational Risks, Desjardins.
Alain Dufort, ing., MBA
AdministratorExecutive Director — Réseau de transport de Longueuil
Judy Sheehan
AdministratorPresident, Gestion Humano
Soumya Tamouro, ASC
AdministratorCorporate Director and Strategic Development, Social Innovation and Governance Consultant
Nathalie Hamel, LL.B, ASC
AdministratorDirector General Public Affairrs and External Communications, Autorité des marchés financiers
Luci Tremblay
AdministratorDirector, Strategy and Development, Montréal en Histoires (MEH), H2Emotion (H2E)
Sofia Benkirane, M.Sc.A
AdministratorDevelopment and accessibility project manager, Société Logique
Board committees
Gouvernance
The governance committee is a board of directors' committee tasked with helping the board carry out its oversight duties by examining every aspect of the board's governance structure to ensure it is functioning in an efficient and effective manner in support of the Société du parc Jean-Drapeau's operations.
Nathalie Hamel, president
Soumya Tamouro, member
Karel Mayrand, member
Ressources humaines
The mandate of the human resources committee is to examine the guidelines and strategies in terms of the Société's human resources management, notably in the area of performance evaluation, employment succession planning, wage policies and overall practices in terms of the Société's human resources.
Judy Sheehan, president
Luci Tremblay, member
Sofia Benkirane, member
Audit
The audit committee is tasked with assisting the board of directors of the Société du parc Jean-Drapeau in carrying out its oversight duties regarding the quality and integrity of financial information by examining the financial documents and by making recommendations and providing advice on strategies, initiatives and policies relating to financial management and internal controls.
Daisy Dedeian, member
Alain Dufort, member
Mobility
Getting to Pavillon du Canada
To make it easier to get around, here is the exact location of the administrative office at Parc Jean-Drapeau posted on Google Maps.
Subway Station
The Jean-Drapeau subway station on the Line 4 — Yellow is located on Île Sainte-Hélène, in the heart of Parc Jean-Drapeau. To get to the Parc easily and quickly, the subway is still the best way to go!
All the details
River shuttle
During the summer season, Parc Jean-Drapeau visitors can use the river shuttle as a means of transportation, from the Vieux-Port de Montréal (Jacques-Cartier pier) and the city of Longueuil.
All the details
STM shuttle
Three STM shuttles provide a connection between the Jean-Drapeau subway station and various attractions.
All the details
Bike
The Parc is one of the few places where you can cross the Saint Lawrence River on your bike: simply take the bike paths of the Jacques Cartier Bridge, the Concorde Bridge or the Bike link.
All the details
Walking
People can enjoy many of the cycling paths to get to or pass through the Parc Jean-Drapeau, either running or walking.
With more than 25 kilometres of trails and pathways, the Parc is a pleasant spot for hiking, all year round.
Parking
Motorists can get to Parc Jean-Drapeau by taking the Jacques Cartier Bridge or the Concorde Bridge.
Nearby parking area:
P5
Rates and parking areas
Taxibus service
You can reserve a taxi for your travels at the Parc by using a valid STM transport fare.
All the details
Subway Station
STM shuttle
River shuttle
Bike
Walking
Parking
Taxibus service
Related topics
Publications
Master Forestry Plan
Appels d'offres et avis d'intention
Job offers
Universal accessibility
A bit of history
Public consultation
Sponsorship request
Ça bouge au Parc
Ne manquez rien des nouveautés, des évènements et des activités à venir. Inscrivez-vous à notre infolettre dès maintenant!
Thank you and see you soon!
© Société du parc Jean-Drapeau