Family Tree resources for the Musgrove surname
Surname Index
Powered by familytreeassistant.com
Ancestry Records
Vital Records
Family Trees
Musgrove Family Tree research resources
Investigate the background  of the Musgrove Family History  using the resources below.
We hope you find these sites useful whilst you are researching your Genealogy !
Did you know that in the 1881 UK census there were 1446 people with the Musgrove surname? In that year Musgrove was ranked number 2210 for popularity in the UK.
(Research another surname)
Musgrove records on Ancestry
Ancestry is a major source of information if you are filling out your  Musgrove family tree. A vast range of data is available to search ranging from census records, births, deaths and marriages, military records and immigration records to name but a few.  Free trials are normally available and are a good way to fill out a lot of your tree quickly.
Country Collection
Ancestry.com Global records search results for the Musgrove family.
Ancestry.com US records search results for the Musgrove family.
Ancestry.co.uk UK records search results for the Musgrove family.
Ancestry.ca Canadian records search results for the Musgrove family.
Ancestry.com.au Australian records search results for the Musgrove family.
Ask a Question
Looking for information on a Musgrove in your family tree?  Why not post a question here -
DNA
Sometimes you can run into a brick wall in your tree and you just don't have enough evidence to make that next step back in time.  If you are lucky then you may find some previously undiscovered  Musgrove ancestors.  Additionally, the modern DNA test can give you a breakdown of your ethnic mix - you may be surprised at the results!
Have you reached a brick wall in your Musgrove Tree?
Visit our Musgrove DNA page to find out more.
Birth, Death and Marriage Records for the Musgrove Genealogy
Birth, Death and Marriage records are often the best method of making the links to the  Musgrove Genealogy that will form part of your family tree.  Although records vary from country to country, they are normally the most formal record of a person's relations.  From the sources below you will be able to find a birth record and, from that, a birth certificate can be ordered which lists the names of the mother and father, taking you back another generation in your tree.  A marriage certificate may also list the names of the respective fathers of the bride and groom which may then help you to find them earlier in life on a census record enabling you to fill out more detail in the  Musgrove family tree.
Search  Musgrove Parish Records at Find My Past.
Investigate  the UK registered births, marriages and deaths for the Musgrove family name using the
FreeBMD
database.
Search  Genealogy Bank for Musgrove family records.
Look at  MyHeritage for Musgrove family data.
Check out  the LDS Database for records of the Musgrove family.
Research the Musgrove surname using fold3 Military Archives and view images of original Musgrove Military records.
Did you know that there are currently 1790 people with the Musgrove surname in the UK?  Musgrove is now ranked number 2480 for popularity in the UK.
Musgrove Family Tree  Databases
Look at  WikiTree for user contributed Musgrove family records.
Collaboration is encouraged so that accuracy of Musgrove data can be verified or corrected by other users.
Study  MyTrees for information on the Musgrove family and people looking to contact living Musgrove 			relations.
Search  GENi for Musgrove family records.
Find your Irish Musgrove relatives on findmypast.ie
Musgrove Forums
Research the Musgrove surname using Genealogy.com forums .
Did you know that there are currently 9115 people with the Musgrove surname in the USA?  Musgrove is ranked number 154 for popularity in the USA.
Miscellaneous Musgrove Databases
Look at  the Ellis Island Database for information on the Musgrove family.  This
database contains over 25 million immigration records detailing passengers arriving in the United States of America.
Use the Surname Map project to look at the current distribution of the Musgrove surname in
the United Kingdom,
France,
Germany,
Spain,
Italy and
Romania.
Some people with the surname MusgroveArmstrong
George
Grant
Joe
Malcolm
Ronnie
Other names that sound a bit like Musgrove
MacGarvey Macgreavey Macgreavy Macgreevey Macgreevy Macrobert Macroberts Makarov Mascraft Maygrove McAreavey Mccarver McCroft McGarva Mcgarvey Mcgarvie McGraffin Mcgriffin McRavey McRobb Mcrobbie Mcrobert Mcroberts McRuvie Mccarvel Mccarville Mccorvey Mccrave Mccraven Mccravey Mccravy Mccreavy Mccroby Mcervale Mcgarvin Mcgarvun Mcgreavey Mcgreavy Mcgreevey Mcgreevy Mcgrieve Mcgriff Mckervey Mcraven Mcreavy Mcrobie Megroff Meserve Meservey Messervey Messervier Moscrip Moscroft Moscrop Moscropp Mosgrove Mosscrip Mosscrop Muscroft Musgrave Muskgraves Mycroft
Privacy Policy