Luxury Hotel Deals - Splendia
Aller au contenu
La Sélection
Magazine
Découvertes
Dernière Minute
Offres
Voyage pour Noel
La Sélection
Magazine
Découvertes
Dernière Minute
Offres
Voyage pour Noel
Welcome to the official website of Splendia, specialist in carefully selected luxury hotels. The English site is currently under construction. In the meantime, we invite you to discover the site in the language of Molière.
DISCOVER SPLENDIA IN 🇫🇷
Our current gems
InterContinental Lyon – Hotel Dieu 5*
Hôtel Ayada Maldives 5*
Chalet Carriaz 5*
Hôtel Okura Amsterdam 5*
Adult Only : Secrets Playa Blanca Costa Mujeres 5*
FIND THE BEST BOUTIQUE HOTELS AROUND THE WORLDAre you looking for a luxury hotel? You have come to the right place.Splendia offers a selection of boutique hotels and luxury 5-star hotels in several destinations around the world. From the small spa hotel near you to the most luxurious palaces located at the other end of the world, only the most charming hotels have been chosen by our team of experts.Selected for their elegance, location and quality of service, all Splendia hotels have an excellent reputation and very good travel reviews. Our goal? Provide you the best experience possible to make your stay unforgettable.With more than one million satisfied customers, the best price guarantee and top-of-the-range customer service, we offer you the best accommodation deals for an absolutely unique luxury travel experience.Beyond accompanying you to find the perfect place to book your holidays, Splendia also distinguishes itself by offering you exclusive benefits directly negotiated with partner hotels. By booking your stay with Splendia, you will enjoy unique privileges in some of the most sought-after hotels in the United Kingdom, Europe and worldwide.Out of inspiration? Let our suggestions guide you! Romantic, stylish, design, modern, with swimming pool, private beach or a Michelin-starred gourmet restaurant… discover our special offers as well as our thematic collections to find the hotel you’ve always dreamed of!Once you have decided on your weekend or holiday destination, there are several options available to reserve one of our boutique hotels or five-star hotels. You can book your luxury room or suite at the lowest prices directly online through our website Splendia.com, or you can contact our multilingual customer service for travel advices and personalised support.
5/5 - (1 vote)
Mentions légales et CGU
Instagram
Facebook
Pinterest
Nos hôtels
Nous contacter
Tous droits réservés
Splendia
Jusqu'à 50€ offerts
sur vos prochaines vacances en parrainant vos proches !
J'EN PROFITE