Fulton, William Savin - Encyclopedia of Arkansas
Skip to content
CALS
Encyclopedia of Arkansas
CALS Organizations
Central Arkansas Library System
Encyclopedia of Arkansas
Roberts Library
Six Bridges Book Festival
Ron Robinson Theater
Rock It! Lab
Browse
Go Back
Entries
All Entries (A-Z)
Entries by Category
Entries by County
Media
All Media (A-Z)
Media by Category
Media by County
Overview Entries
Arkansas Overview
Time Period Entries
Pre-European Exploration, Prehistory through 1540
European Exploration and Settlement, 1541 through 1802
Louisiana Purchase through Early Statehood, 1803 through 1860
Civil War through Reconstruction, 1861 through 1874
Post-Reconstruction through the Gilded Age, 1875 through 1900
Early Twentieth Century, 1901 through 1940
World War II through the Faubus Era, 1941 through 1967
Divergent Prosperity and the Arc of Reform, 1968–2022
What's New
What’s New
Get Involved
Teachers/Students
Go Back
Teachers/Students
AR History on the Web
Lesson Plans
Local Historical Associations
Programs on AR History
Activities
Student Activities
History Day
History Day 2025
History Day 2024
History Day 2023
History Day 2022
Other Resources
Other Online Encyclopedias
Other Resources
Blog
Quizzes
What’s New
En Español
About
Go Back
About
About the CALS Encyclopedia of Arkansas
Mission and Goals Statement
Editorial Policies
Volunteers
Oversight & Editorial Boards
Staff
Contact Us
Helpful Tips
Support the EOA
Search
Entries
Media
All results
All Entries
Government & Politics
State
Governors
William Savin Fulton (1795–1844)
William Savin Fulton was appointed Arkansas’s last territorial governor by President Andrew Jackson in 1835 and served as Arkansas’s first junior senator after statehood in 1836 until his death on August 15, 1844. He is most often associated with the Democratic Party, and when serving as governor, he surrounded himself with controversy by opposing immediate statehood for Arkansas.
William Fulton was born in Cecil County, Maryland, on June 2, 1795. His parents were Irish-born David and Maryland native Elizabeth Fulton. Owing to his mother’s wealth, Fulton was provided with a formal education under Reverend Samuel Knox in 1803, and he attended Baltimore College in 1813 before practicing law in 1817.
Between his education and law career, Fulton served as a corporal in the Baltimore Fencibles, an elite volunteer unit, alongside his father in the days leading up to the fourteen-hour naval bombardment at Fort McHenry during the War of 1812. In 1815, Fulton traveled to Florida to serve as private secretary to a family friend, General Andrew Jackson, in the Seminole Wars. After his service with Jackson, Fulton moved to Tennessee in 1820 and then to Florence, Alabama, where he engaged in law and wrote editorials for the Democratic newspaper, the Florence Gazette. He was elected judge of Lauderdale County, Alabama, in the 1820s and was joined there by his extended family, which had moved from Maryland to take advantage of the new financial opportunities in the west.
Fulton married his first cousin, Matilda Frances Nowland, in 1823; the next year, she gave birth to a daughter, Elizabeth Rebecca. The couple soon had two more children, David Peregrine in 1826 and Mary Jane in 1829.
In 1829, Fulton was appointed by President Andrew Jackson as the secretary to the territory of Arkansas, replacing the Whig candidate, Robert Crittenden. Fulton and his family arrived in Arkansas in the summer of 1829, and he immediately took over the job as acting governor in the absence of Governor John Pope. During Pope’s frequent absences from Arkansas, Fulton often acted as governor or traveled between Washington DC and Little Rock (Pulaski County) on territorial business.
Thanks to his backing by the powerful Democratic faction in territorial Arkansas, Fulton was able to bestow political positions upon family members. His brother John became secretary to Governor Pope, and his father became postmaster of Little Rock. Fulton also secured his brother-in-law a position as sutler, or merchant, at Fort Gibson in Indian Territory. Fulton was also able to purchase property in Little Rock that included several lots, which he called Rosewood, the present-day site of the Arkansas governor’s mansion. His prominent status also allowed him to send his eldest daughter, Elizabeth, to a female seminary in Georgetown during the 1830s. Fulton’s family also grew as the couple had more children: Hickory, Sophia, Mary Jane, Matilda Frances, Maria Eller, and Ida. Only Elizabeth, Sophia, and Ida survived to adulthood.
Jackson appointed Fulton governor on March 9, 1835. He is known for his actions during the debate whether to enter Arkansas as the twenty-fifth state in the Union. Fulton was generally opposed to statehood on the grounds that neither the people nor the resources were ready. As a result, he received a great deal of criticism from politicians, newspapers, and the public. Despite this, the state legislature elected Fulton to the U.S. Congress as the junior senator from Arkansas in 1836. In Washington DC, Fulton joined his friend, Senator Ambrose Sevier, where he spent most of his time until his death.
Fulton suffered a premature death in the late fall of 1844. According to family lore, he slept in a newly painted room on one of his visits to Rosewood and died mysteriously afterward. He was buried in Little Rock’s Mount Holly Cemetery in the Fulton-Nowland plot. His memory and his accomplishments were carried on by his ambitious eldest daughter, Elizabeth Wright, who spent most of her life trying to keep her father’s memory alive, rebutting issues related to the fight over statehood during her father’s administration.
For additional information:
Baker, Lea Flowers. “William Savin and Matilda Fulton: A Brief Look at a Territorial Arkansas Family.” Pulaski County Historical Review 48 (Winter 2000): 74–84.
Bolton, S. Charles. Remote and Restless: Arkansas, 1800–1860. Fayetteville: University of Arkansas Press, 1998.
———. Territorial Ambition: Land and Society in Arkansas, 1800–1840. Fayetteville: University of Arkansas Press, 1993.
William Savin Fulton Collection. Arkansas State Archives, Little Rock, Arkansas.
Lea Flowers Baker
Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site
Last updated:
March 27, 2024
Questions or corrections?
Send Feedback
Comments
No comments on this entry yet.
Add Public Comment
Print
Share
Copy Link
Share on Facebook
Share on Threads
Share on Bluesky
Related Entries
Louisiana Purchase through Early Statehood, 1803 through 1860
Politics and Government
Related Media
William Fulton
William Fulton
Give Entry Feedback
William Savin Fulton (1795–1844)
"*" indicates required fields
Feedback Type*
Correction
Question
Your Question*Correction to Make*Sources*If you can, provide 1-2 sources of information backing up this correctionThis field is hidden when viewing the formYour Name*
First
Last
Your Name*Your Name*Last Name*Your Email*Will not be shared with anyone
Your Phone #*Will not be shared with anyoneHometown*Zip Code*Newsletter Subscribe
Subscribe me to the encyclopedia newsletter
NameThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Cancel
Submit Feedback
Leave a Comment
William Savin Fulton (1795–1844)
"*" indicates required fields
Your Comment*Your Name*Your Name*Last Name*Email Address*Will not be shared with anyone
Phone Number*Will not be shared with anyoneHometown*Newsletter Subscribe
Subscribe me to the encyclopedia newsletter
CommentsThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Cancel
Submit Comment for Approval
Exit Quiz
You will lose any progress you've made on this quiz so far.Are you sure you want to exit?
Cancel
Confirm Exit
About
Blog
Contact Us
Get Involved
Subscribe to Newsletter
Support The EOA
Our Sponsors
Major support provided through a partnership with the Arkansas Department of Parks & Tourism.
Major funding provided by the Winthrop Rockefeller Foundation.
Special thanks to the Department of Arkansas Heritage.
Additional support provided by the Arkansas Humanities Council.
Additional support provided by the Arkansas General Assembly.
Additional support provided by the Arkansas Community Foundation.
Additional support provided by the Charles M. and Joan R. Taylor Foundation Inc.
This project is funded in part by a National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Sustaining the Humanities through the American Rescue Plan grant award.
100 Rock Street  Little Rock, AR 72201
editor@cals.org
© 2025 Encyclopedia of Arkansas. All Rights Reserved.
Donate
501-918-3025
calsfoundation@cals.org
Ways To Give
Donate Now
Recurring Giving
TRIBUTE GIVING
Honor or memorial gifts are an everlasting way to pay tribute to someone who has touched your life. Give a donation in someone’s name to mark a special occasion, honor a friend or colleague or remember a beloved family member. When a tribute gift is given the honoree will receive a letter acknowledging your generosity and a bookplate will be placed in a book. For more information, contact 501-918-3025 or calsfoundation@cals.org.
The CALS Foundation is a 501(c)(3) organization. Donations made to the CALS Foundation are tax-deductible for United States federal income tax purposes. Read our Privacy Policy.
Contact Encyclopedia of Arkansas
CONTACT FORM
[contact-form-7 id="1017"]
ADDRESS
Encyclopedia of Arkansas
100 Rock Street
Little Rock, AR. 72201
PHONE NUMBER
(501) 320-5714
EMAIL
editor@cals.org
CALS Catalog Login
Login / Signup
Get a Card
Login to the CALS catalog!
The first time you log in to our catalog you will need to create an account. Creating an account gives you access to all these features.
Track your borrowing.
Rate and review titles you borrow and share your opinions on them.
Get personalized recommendations.
CALS Digital Services
View All Services
Get an E-Book
Download Music
Listen to an Audiobook
Watch a Story
Download a Magazine
Website and Events
Catalog