Association for Computing Machinery
skip to main content
Digital Library
CACM
Queue
TechNews
Career Center
Advancing Computing as a Science & Profession
Join
Volunteer
myACM
Search Input
Search Submit
Join
Volunteer
myACM
Search
About ACM
About Home
About ACM
ACM's Mission, Vision, Core Values and Goals
Governance
ACM Council
Boards and Committees
Past Presidents
ACM Constitution
Bylaws
Annual Reports
History
Code of Ethics
Code of Ethics Enforcement Procedures
Stop Harassment
Report Unacceptable Behavior
Policy on Complaint Process Disclosure
ACM Statements
ACM in the News
ACM Updates
Media Center
Contact Us
About ACM
ACM, the world's largest educational and scientific computing society, delivers resources that advance computing as a science and a profession. ACM provides the computing field's premier Digital Library and serves its members and the computing profession with leading-edge publications, conferences, and career resources.
[Learn More about ACM...]
ACM Regional Councils
ACM: Formed at the Dawn of Computing
Membership
Membership Home
About Membership
Membership Options
Membership Benefits
Ambassadors for ACM
People of ACM
Members in the News
Join
Renew
Subscribe
Manage your Account / myACM
Distinguished Speakers
Contact Us
ACM Membership
ACM offers the resources, access and tools to invent the future. No one has a larger global network of professional peers. No one has more exclusive content. No one presents more forward-looking events. Or confers more prestigious awards. Or provides a more comprehensive learning center.
[Learn More about ACM Membership...]
ACM Skills Bundle Add-On
Customer Service FAQs
Become an Ambassador for ACM
Publications
Publications Home
About Publications
Digital Library
CACM
Journals
Magazines
Books
Conference Proceedings
ICPS
SIGs Newsletters
Blue Diamond Newsletter
Applications-Oriented Content
For Authors
Primary Article Templates
Open Access
Artifacts and Reproducibility
New ACM Journals
Propose New Publications
Policies
Report a Potential Violation
Ethics & Plagiarism
Publications Board
Subscribe
Advertise
Contact Us
About ACM Publications
For more than 60 years, the best and brightest minds in computing have come to ACM to meet, share ideas, publish their work and change the world. ACM's publications are among the most respected and highly cited in the field because of their longstanding focus on quality and their ability to attract pioneering thought leaders from both academia and industry.
[Learn More about ACM Publications...]
Publish with ACM
Select Application-Oriented Papers
Software and Data Artifacts in the ACM Digital Library
SIGs
Special Interest Groups Home
About SIGs
SIG Listing
Emerging Interest Groups
SIG Awards
SIG Chapters
Publications
Conferences
Join a SIG
Volunteer Resources
SIG Leaders
Contact Us
Special Interest Groups
ACM's Special Interest Groups (SIGs) represent major areas of computing, addressing the interests of technical communities that drive innovation. SIGs offer a wealth of conferences, publications and activities focused on specific computing sub-disciplines. They enable members to share expertise, discovery and best practices.
[Learn More about ACM's SIGs...]
Join an ACM SIG
Virtual Conferences: A Guide to Best Practices
Conferences
Conferences Home
About Conferences
Conference Series
Upcoming Conferences
Get Conference Proceedings
Upcoming Submission Deadlines
ACM Author Rights & Permissions
Best Paper Awards
Volunteer Resources
Contact Us
ACM and its Special Interest Groups Host More Than 170 Events Worldwide
Our conferences, workshops and symposia unite innovators like you to push computing technology forward and to continue the legacy that unites us as like-minded thinkers and makers.
[Learn More about ACM Conferences...]
Find an ACM Conference
Virtual Conferences: A Guide to Best Practices
Chapters
Chapters Home
About Chapters
Professional Chapters
Student Chapters
Meetups
Newsletter
Calendar of Local Activities
Distinguished Speakers
Annual Reports
Find a Chapter
Start a Chapter
Chapter Policies
Chapter Administrative Interface
Contact Us
About ACM Chapters
ACM’s Professional and Student chapters worldwide serve as hubs of activity for ACM members and the computing community at large. They provide seminars, lectures, learning forums and networking opportunities with peers and experts across the computing spectrum.
[Learn More about ACM Chapters...]
Chapter-in-a-Box: Everything You Need to Run and Grow Your ACM Chapter
Chapter Administrative Interface
Start an ACM Chapter
Awards
Awards Home
About Awards
Award Recipients
ACM Fellows
ACM Advanced Member Grades
ACM Awards Committee
Nominate
Award Sponsors
Establish a New Award
Contact Us
About ACM Awards
ACM recognizes excellence through its eminent awards for technical and professional achievements and contributions in computer science and information technology. It also names as Fellows and Distinguished Members those members who, in addition to professional accomplishments, have made significant contributions to ACM's mission.
More on ACM Awards
Andrew Barto and Richard Sutton Receive 2024 ACM A.M. Turing Award
ACM Names 2024 Fellows
ACM Names 2024 Distinguished Members
Education
Education Home
About Education
Curricula Recommendations
Affiliated Organizations
ACM Learning Center
Resources for Educators
Resources for Graduating Students
Education Board and Advisory Committee
Reports and Studies
Contact Us
Education
ACM’s educational activities, conducted primarily through our Education Board and Advisory Committee, range from the K-12 space (CSTA) and two-year programs to undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral-level education, and professional development for computing practitioners at every stage of their career...
[Learn More about Education…]
ACM Education Advisory Committee Applications Open
Angelica Lo Duca TechTalk
ByteCast Ep66: Travis S. Humble
Learning Center
Learning Center Home
About the Learning Center
E-Learning
Member Offers
TechTalks
ByteCast
Resources
FAQs
Practitioner Board
Professional Development Committee
About ACM Learning Center
The ACM Learning Center offers ACM members access to lifelong learning tools and resources. Our E-Learning collections offer complimentary access to more than 80,000 online books, courses, and videos from top content publishers. The ACM TechTalk series brings leading computing luminaries and visionaries to your screen. Members enjoy exclusive offers and discounts on IT industry certifications and vendor-specific training.
ByteCast Ep66: Travis S. Humble
ByteCast Ep65: Darja Smite
ByteCast Ep64: Chieko Asakawa
Public Policy
Public Policy Home
About ACM's Public Policy Work
Tech Policy Council
Europe Tech Policy
US Tech Policy
USTPC HotTopics Webinars
ACM TechBriefs
Policy Products
Media Releases
Contact Us
Public Policy
ACM provides independent, nonpartisan, and technology-neutral research and resources to policy leaders, stakeholders, and the public about public policy issues, drawn from the deep technical expertise of the computing community.
[Learn More about ACM's Public Policy Work...]
TechBrief on Tech Abuse
USTPC Issues Revised Statement on Remote Proctoring
ACM Europe TPC Statement on Digital Green Certificates
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Home
About Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Forming Diverse Teams
Words Matter
ACM Celebrates Awareness Months
ACM Code of Ethics
Stop Harassment
Contact Us
Report Unacceptable Behavior
ACM-W
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Anyone, from any background, should feel encouraged to participate and contribute to ACM. ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other antisocial behaviors are not tolerated.
[Learn More about ACM's Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion...]
DEI Articles in CACM
DEI CE Webinars
How Diverse Is Your Team?
Association for Computing Machinery
Advancing Computing as a Science & Profession
We see a world where computing helps solve tomorrow’s problems.
Learn More
ACM Digital Library
Research, Discovery and Networking
The full-text collection of all ACM publications and a comprehensive bibliographic database covering computing.
Search the DL
Communications of the ACM
The Most Trusted Source
The leading online and print publication for the computing and information technology fields.
Browse CACM
Awards & Recognition
Andrew Barto and Richard Sutton Receive 2024 ACM A.M. Turing Award
Andrew G. Barto and Richard S. Sutton received the 2024 ACM A.M. Turing Award for deve loping the conceptual and algorithmic foundations of reinforcement learning. In a series of papers beginning in the 1980s, Barto and Sutton introduced the main ideas, constructed the mathematical foundations, and developed important algorithms for reinforcement learning—one of the most important approaches for creating intelligent systems. Barto is Professor Emeritus of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Sutton is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Alberta, a Research Scientist at Keen Technologies, and a Fellow at Amii (Alberta Machine Intelligence Institute).
ACM Reaffirms Its Commitment to Our Mission and Core Values
ACM is aware that many in our community are concerned about potential negative effects of recent Executive Orders by the new US Administration on our work in both the US and globally. This includes concerns about p ossible consequences for ACM publishing, conferences, education, and practitioner efforts, as well as concerns about possible harms to our work on inclusion for a strong and diverse technology workforce.
ACM reaffirms its commitment to our  mission and core values in all our scientific and educational activities. This includes global scientific and educational efforts dedicated to advancing the art, science, engineering, and application of computing. We will continue to serve both professional and public interests by fostering the open exchange of information and by promoting the highest professional and ethical standards.
ACM’s commitment to its mission, guided by its core values, is unchanged. We will work with members of the community to understand how new Executive Orders may affect their work as it relates to scientific, educational, and community development efforts.
Submit your work
ACM's Publications Program
Upcoming conferences
Submissions deadlines
Find your technical community
Find a SIG Chapter near you
Join ACM!
Renew Your Membership
ACM Members - In Their Own Words
People of ACM
Interviews highlighting the accomplishments and attributes of ACM members.
Read the Interviews
What's Happening in and Around ACM
ACM Updates
The latest goings-on in the world of ACM you want to know about.
See What's New
Newsmakers
ACM Members in the News
Members whose achievements have made the headlines.
Read the Latest
Focused Lectures On Demand
ACM TechTalks
Talks by industry experts, ACM award laureates, and visionary researchers.
Watch the TechTalks
In-Depth Interviews
ACM ByteCast
ACM's podcast series at the intersection of computing research and practice.
Listen to the ByteCasts
Nominations
Award Recipients
Curricula Recommendations
ACM Learning Center
Words Matter
Awareness Months
Recent Policy Products
ACM TechBriefs
CACM Relaunched as Open Access, Web-First Publication
ACM has relaunched Communications of the ACM (CACM) as a web-first publication, accessible to all without charge—including the entire backlog of  CACM articles. First published in 1958, CACM is one of the most respected information technology magazines. The web-first model will allow ACM to publish articles more rapidly than before so that readers can keep abreast of the lightning-fast changes in the computing field. At the same time, researchers will be able to reference and cite valuable information and research from CACM articles more quickly. This marks another important milestone in ACM's ongoing transition to a fully open access publisher.
Prevalence and Prevention of Large Language Model Use in Crowd Work
Crowd work platforms such as Prolific and Amazon play an important part in academia and industry, empowering the creation, annotation, and summarization of data, as well as surveys and experiments. At the same time, large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT promise similar capabilities. Yet, if crowd workers were to start using LLMs, this could threaten the validity of data generated using crowd work platforms. In this article from the March issue of Communications of the ACM, Veniamin Veselovsky et al. ask: How can we—and should we—prevent LLM use in crowd work?
For Practitioners
Program Merge: What's Deep Learning Got to Do with It?
If you regularly work with open-source code or produce software for a large organization, you're already familiar with many of the challenges posed by collaborative programming at scale. And the scale of the problem has gotten much worse. This is what led a group of researchers at MSR (Microsoft Research) to take on the task of complicated merges as a grand program-repair challenge—one they believed might be addressed at least in part by machine learning. To understand the thinking that led to this effort and then follow where that led, Erik Meijer and Terry Coatta spoke with three of the leading figures in the MSR research effort, called DeepMerge
For Practitioners
Deterministic Record-and-Replay
ACM Queue’s "Research for Practice" serves up expert-curated guides to the best of computing research, and relates these breakthroughs to the challenges that software engineers face every day. In this installment, Research for Practice covers the topic of deterministic record-and-replay. Deterministic record-and-replay technologies enable a faithful re-execution of a program that ran in the past. But accomplishing this requires that any nondeterministic inputs to the program be logged during execution. The selection of techniques presented here is curated by Andrew Quinn, Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at UC Santa Cruz.
Get Involved
Become an Ambassador for ACM
Encourage your colleagues to join ACM, share the benefits of ACM and receive free gifts for participating. Your support of ACM is critical to our continuing efforts to advance computing as a science and a profession.
ACM Code of Ethics
The ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct was updated in 2018 to address the significant advances in computing technology since the 1992 version, as well as the growing pervasiveness of computing in all aspects of society.
Career Resource
Lifelong Learning
ACM offers lifelong learning resources including online books and courses from Skillsoft, TechTalks on the hottest topics in computing and IT, and more.
Send Email as Your "@acm.org" Address
ACM is excited to announce a new enhancement of to the widely used ACM email forwarding service. Through a partnership with MailRoute, SMTP Auth Relay is now available for member use. To start sending fully authenticated email as your @acm.org address, simply log in at  https://myacm.acm.org and click the "SMTP Auth Relay" link.
About ACM
About ACM
Volunteer
Membership
Join ACM
Renew My Membership
Membership Options
Membership Benefits
MyACM Sign In
Publications
About Publications
Digital Library
Submit a Paper
Advertise with ACM
Chapters
Chapter Admin Interface
Chapter Activities Calendar
Start a Chapter
Special Interest Groups
SIGs Newsletter
Awards
About ACM's Awards
Conferences
ACM's Conferences
Code of Ethics
ACM's Code of Ethics
Enforcement Procedures
Media Center
ACM Media Center
Advertise with ACM
Education
Education Home
Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy Home
Home
Sitemap
Contact Us
Member Services
Privacy Policy
Social Media Policy
Accessibility
Cookie Declaration
Copyright © 2025, ACM, Inc