Looking in The Alabama Ice Box  : The Alabama Weather Blog
7 Day Forecast
Radar
Beach Forecast Center
Alabama Gulf Coast
Western Florida Panhandle
Central Florida Panhandle
Severe Weather Tips
EForecast
Advertising
Almanac
January Almanac
February Almanac
March Almanac
April Almanac
May Almanac
June Almanac
July Almanac
August Almanac
September Almanac
October Almanac
November Almanac
December Almanac
ALL POSTS
Alabama’s Weather
Headlines
Partner News Stories
Met 101/Weather History
WeatherBrains
Tropical
Spacey Stuff
Looking in The Alabama Ice Box
J.B. Elliott |
January 13, 2010 @ 10:56 am
| 11 Replies
Another very cold morning across the great state of Alabama, home of Mt. Cheaha, Little River Canyon and Havana Junction. Here we go with another list of lows and thanks to Jason for assisting with the 33/40 Skywatcher reports:
11 Oneonta, Jasper, Broomtown
13 Scrougeout
14 Moody, Decatur, Gaylesville
15 Dearmanville
16 Roebuck, Camp Comfort (north of Fayette) Muscle Shoals, Crossville, Sylacauga
17 Center Point, Winfield, Carbon Hill
18 Coker, Munford, Huntsville, Clay/Pinson (Womack Road)
19 Gold Ridge (Cullman County) Pleasant Grove, Bankhead National Forest, Addison, Alexander City, Centreville, Mt. Cheaha, Opelika, Highland Home
20 Gardendale Tuscaloosa, Noccalula Falls
21 Shelby County Airport, Montgomery/Dannelly Field, Springville, Clayton, Brewton
22 Anniston, Dothan, Wadley, Robertsdale, Jackson, Evergreen,
23 Bessemer, Springville, Mobile Regional Airport, Fairhope, Thomasville, Atmore
24 Pinson, Selma
25 Florala, Coden, Mobile/Brookley Feild
32 Gulf Shores Airport
35 Dauphin Island
ALABAMA NOTES
* Still a bit of snow on the ground atop Mt. Cheaha (from last Thursday!)
* Lows in Birmingham below 25 for 12 days in a row, an all time record dating back to the mid-1880s! Previous record occurred during January, 1940 during which there was ice skating on the Warrior River at Birmingport.
* So far in January, the “warmest” day was 5 degrees colder than average.
* January so far has averaged 15 degrees below average.
* As of 9 o’clock this morning, in the Clay-Pinson area, only 45 hours of the 297 hours so far this year had temperatures above freezing.
SNOW SURVEY
51% of the “Lower 48” covered with a blanket of snow this morning. That compared to 62% about a week ago.
USA EXTREMES
78 Tuesday afternoon, Rialto, Calif.
-14 this morning at Whitefield, New Hampshire
-53 Eagle, Alaska
23 inches of snow at Whittier, Alaska
17 inches at Nome
SOUTHERN APPALACHIANS
6 atop Mt. LeConte with 21 inches of snow
9 on Newfound Gap with 4 inches of snow
11 Cades Cove, a trace of snow
13 Gatlinburg, trace of snow
9 Beech Mountain, N.C., 10 inches of snow
9 Grandfather Mountain, N.C., 10 inches of snow
9 Mt. Mitchell, N.C., 17 inches of snow
11 Boone, N.C., 6 inches of snow.
Take heart, the worst of the cold seems to be over for Alabama. We will be exactly half way through winter Friday so there is plenty more time for bitter cold. But moderation is the word for the rest of this week. If not, maybe we should all hitch a ride to Halls Creek, Australia where highs will be 95-98 for the next several days and 102 by Monday.
On second thought–NO THANKS! I prefer cold weather–at least until my heating bill arrives from Trussville Utilities!
Category: Uncategorized
About the Author (Author Profile)
Subscribe
If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to receive more just like it.
Privacy guaranteed. We never share your info.
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
You must be logged in to post a comment.
« Digging Out Of The Freeze
The Warm-Up Begins »
The Daily Weather Briefing VideoDay 1 Severe Weather Outlook
Subscribe to Our Mailing List
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
WeatherBrains 1001: You And Your Jet CoresX FeedsThe AlabamaWx Weather Blog
James Spann
Bill Murray (Weather Historian)
In Memoriam — J.B. Elliott
Our long time friend, mentor, and charter Weather Factory member, J.B. Elliott, passed away on May 11, 2015. Click HERE to read James' tribute.
Craft Your Message on AlabamaWX
Contact Bill Murray at The Weather Factory at billmurray at theweaterfactory.com to develop a campaign that will help your business thrive!
Contact Us
The AlabamaWX Weather Blog is a production of The Weather Factory.
Bill Murray
1430 Gadsden Highway
Suite 116 - #106
Birmingham, AL 35235
Email Bill Murray
AlabamaWX Staff Bios James Spann
Bill Murray
Ryan Stinnett
Scott Martin
Tony Rice
©  2025 The Alabama Weather Blog. All rights reserved. Premium WordPress Themes.