Cheap Interstate Movers | Cheapest Source for Long Distance Movers
Home
Our Company
Get In Touch
Interstate 50 Movers
BrowseHome
A Step-by-Step Guide to Unpacking After A Move
Posted on
2019-10-09
by
interstate50
Unpacking is the best part of moving. It’s time to make your new place your own. Here is a step-by-step guide to unpacking after a move to help make it a smooth process. Order It’s best to unpack room by room. Here is the most productive order: Bedrooms: There’s nothing like having a comfortable place […]
Continue Reading
What To Do When Moving Long Distance With Pets and Kids – 6 Awesome Tips
Posted on
2019-10-02
by
interstate50
Moving is a stressful, expensive, and complicated process. Doing it over long distances, with kids and pets in tow, is an Olympic-level feat. If you’re about to begin or are in the middle of a move, we have some tips that can significantly improve your experience.
1. Give yourself lots of time.
Time can be your greatest weapon or your worst enemy. Rushing will only exacerbate and cause unforeseen issues.
For example, suppose you’re mid-pack when you suddenly realize you’re out of boxes. Getting more will take valuable time and energy, and if you’re already down to the wire, that’s the last thing you need. However, if you still have time, procuring more boxes is barely an issue.
In the case of moving with children, let them know you’re moving as early on as possible. They need time to adjust, ask questions, and mentally prepare. Also be sure to book interstate movers well in advance of the move! If you’re moving with pets or kids in tow, it’s probably best to leave the moving logistics to professionals.
2. Get the kids involved.
In that same vein, if your kids are old enough, try to get them involved in the move. Responsibility will help curb feelings of uncertainty.
3. Protect your fur babies.
While you’re loading the truck and moving furniture, all pets should be crated or otherwise contained. By doing so will significantly reduce the chance of them getting hurt, or running outside and getting lost. Moves are chaotic by nature. You don’t want an animal underfoot.
4. Make sure you have paperwork.
Going long-distance means you’ll either have to fly or drive across state lines. If you have kids in tow, be prepared with identifying documents. It is mainly the case during international moves.
For pets, have vet records handy. If you have dogs, make sure they’re licensed or micro-chipped. Additionally, if you’re going to fly, check in advance with the airline to see what their pet carrier policies are.
5. Bring essentials for the trip.
The majority of your belongings will be inaccessible, buried in a mountain of cardboard boxes. Wisely choose what you will have with you – up in the car or your carry-on. Think practically, but also comfortably.
For kids:
activities to keep them busy, like movies and coloring books
favorite toys
car seats (if applicable)
For pets:
crate or kennel
leash
vet records
For everyone:
food and water
music or podcasts
spare clothes and bedding
If you’re not personally driving the moving van, there’s always a chance your things will arrive at the new house days later than you anticipated. Be prepared to tough it out for a little while.
6. Don’t forget yourself.
Finally, with everything you’re juggling, you need to remember to take care of yourself.
There are a thousand things to keep track of during a move. No matter how meticulously you plan, things go wrong, people get injured, and stuff gets misplaced. So, be kind to yourself. Everything will work out. You will be able to settle at your new place in no time.
Continue Reading
6 Clever Tips on Handling the Challenge of Moving with Ease
Posted on
2019-09-18
by
interstate50
The boxes, the disorganization, the address updates – let’s face it: moving is a pain! Although there is no definite way to take away the hassle of moving, there are ways to make it a little less hectic.
1. Save money on movers & go with a cheaper moving option
Moving is expensive. Being tight on money is stressful. The solution is easy, spend less on movers… right? It’s often easier said than done. Even the cheapest movers can charge between $250 and $5,000 (greatguyslongdistancemovers.com/cheap-moving-companies/) and that’s a lot of money, and stress! But, there are definitely deals to be found. Try moving during the off-season. Ask your movers for special rates for military, teachers, or first-responder discounts. And most important, get lots of quotes. These should be over the phone and in-person! It may take a lot of searching, but there are deals to be found.
2. Get rid of everything (or almost everything).
Sell the couch. Donate the mattresses. Toss out the old Christmas decorations. Some people follow this idea literally – getting rid of any item that they don’t need or can easily replace. However, others view it is a challenge for decluttering.
Though you can certainly get rid of any larger items, you can also choose to downsize. To do this, create a list and choose which items you want to sell, donate, or throw out.
3. Sort items as you pack.
Organizing and labeling boxes by room will make the unpacking process much more manageable. Even if you currently have items in one room that belong in another, place these items in the corresponding box that depicts your goal location. For example, if you have a Christmas decoration that has been taking up space in your closet, place it in the decor box, and store it somewhere else.
4. Keep important items with you.
If you have specific items that you will need immediately after arriving at your new location, keep those items with you or pack accordingly. Essential items, such as irreplaceable paperwork and documents, should stay with you at all times in a secure location. Remember not to leave these items out of sight in your vehicle when traveling.
Pack your moving truck/trailer properly. Place items that you use daily near the front of the moving vessel so that they will be some of the first items to get unpacked. You don’t want to wait weeks for your dishes, because you accidentally packed them in the back of the moving truck. Plan ahead.
5. Create a schedule.
Don’t want to find yourself scurrying around when the movers arrive? Create a schedule in advance. Use a spreadsheet on a computer or an app on your phone that will allow you to adjust the plan as needed. You can also share your schedule with others so that everyone is aware of the tentative moving timeline.
6. Enlist help.
Invite your family and friends to help expedite the packing process. Consider hiring a moving company to transport your items for you. Use all of the help that you can get. Moving is a challenge, both physically and emotionally. Easing some of the burdens will help you in the long run.
7. Find free boxes.
Surprisingly, one of the highest expenses associated with moving is the cost of boxes. One box at a retailer can cost upwards of $10. Multiply that by an entire household, and you have spent money that could be better spent elsewhere on cardboard. Look for boxes on social media, garage sale sites, and from family/friends.
Continue Reading
7 Tips to Achieve a Long-Distance Move That’s Stress-Free
Posted on
2019-09-06
by
interstate50
Moving can be one of the most stressful events that a person can do. Between trying to pack, unpack, and make sure nothing gets lost or damaged, it can quickly cause a lot of worry and anxiety. Furthermore, if you are making a move across a long distance, it can be even more challenging. If you are planning on making a long-distance move now or soon, below are seven tips from Ian’s Interstate Movers (iansinterstatemovers.com) to help it be as stress-free as possible.
1. Make a List
Having a list when moving will help to simplify the process. In your list, you should include which items you need to pack in the same box. Your list should also include the order that you would like to organize things.
2. Number Everything
After you’ve created a list of all the items that you need to pack, and the order that they need to be packed in, number all of the boxes. Then go and place the number on the list next to the items that are in each box. It will help you as you unpack, so you know exactly where certain things are. Another way you can do this is to color-code your boxes when packing.
3. Start Early
Moving is stressful for many reasons, but one of the most common reasons is that people feel they don’t have enough time. As soon as you are sure that you will be moving, you should make a schedule. This schedule will help you to have deadlines for when you would like things to be finished by, alleviating stress.
4. Let the Professionals Help
Hiring movers is a sure way to take some of the stress out of moving. Not only do movers help with the heavy lifting and carrying of items, but they also assist in the actual unpacking and packing process. If you can fit this in your budget, it is an excellent service to consider.
5. Ask for Help
Many times, friends and family are more than happy to lend a hand during a significant life event such as moving. Don’t be afraid to ask others for help, especially on the day of the move. With lots of heavy furniture and boxes, it is incredibly convenient to have a few extra helping hands.
6. Downsize Before the Move
Another stressful aspect of moving is trying to pack all of your belongings and having room for them, too. Consider having a garage sale or yard sale a few weeks before you move to get rid of items that you don’t use anymore. Not only will this give you less to pack, but it will also provide you with some extra money before the move.
7. Think About Insurance
Before you move, you may want to purchase moving insurance to remove some of the stress if anything breaks in the process of moving. Depending on what type of coverage you have, some items may or may not be already covered as you move. Make sure to call your insurance provider to learn more about this and to provide clarity and peace of mind.
Conclusion
Moving long-distance can seem like a daunting task, but it doesn’t have to be. When you use the tips provided above, you will find that the whole process goes much smoother than you thought it would.
Continue Reading
Search Now
Search
Latest Blog Posts
A Step-by-Step Guide to Unpacking After A Move
What To Do When Moving Long Distance With Pets and Kids – 6 Awesome Tips
6 Clever Tips on Handling the Challenge of Moving with Ease
7 Tips to Achieve a Long-Distance Move That’s Stress-Free
Sponsored Content
© 2025 Interstate 50 Movers. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Email