Eternal Gray (news, biography, albums, line-up, tour dates) | Official Season of Mist band
Skip to content
Home
News
Latest News
News Archive
Bands
New Signings
All Bands
Releases
Upcoming Releases
All Releases
Tour Dates
Contact
Address & Demo submission
Season of Mist is hiring
Shop
Worldwide shop
North America shop
Home
Bands
Eternal Gray
Eternal Gray
Dark Death Metal - Israel
Biography
Releases
Tour Dates
News
Videos
Formed in Israel in late 2001, ETERNAL GRAY does not subscribe to Oriental Metal like so many of their countrymen.
Instead their debut album “Kindless” (Raven Music/Listenable, 2002) captured worldwide attention by their unique brand of melodic Death Metal with a dark twist. Recorded in the famed Abyss Studios by Tommy Tägtgren, featuring guest appearances of Peter Tägtgren (Hypocrisy) and Schmier (Destruction), their first full length immediately scored full grades and even “album of the month” titles in major Metal magazines.
Following the release of the album, the band performed a series of headlining shows around Israel, as well as invited to share stage with acts such as MESHUGGAH, DESTRUCTION, MEGADETH, DISMEMBER, BEHEMOTH and ROTTING CHRIST to name but a few. In order to fill in the missing positions, Gil Ben-Ya’akov (Bass) and Roy Chen (Drums) have joined the band in 2003.
In 2004, the band entered the studio to work on new material for their second studio album “Your Gods, My Enemies”, but decided to record an EP before, which was planned for release in only 1000 copies. However, not long after recording the EP “Numb”, the band parted ways with singer/guitarist Eyal Glottmann, a change that got in the way of releasing the EP and completing work on the new album. It was the only release to be recorded with the second line-up as later in 2005, the band parted ways with Roy Chen (drums) and was joined by vocalist Oren Balbus, guitarist Auria Sapir and drummer Dror Goldstein.
With this new lineup ETERNAL GRAY decided to enter the studio once again and record this EP (for the 2nd and then the 3rd time). But this EP never saw the light of day as they decided to cut this cycle and start working freshly on a full-length.
Guitarist and founding member Dory Gray moved to Germany in 2006, to concentrate on his musical career and write fresh material for the album, entitled “Your Gods, My Enemies”. By 2007, the band had finished the writing process and decided to record the album.
It took the band eight years to follow up the success of their debut album with the new full-length album “Your Gods, My Enemies” , finally released on Season of Mist in October 2011. Recorded in Studio Underground, Sweden, “Your Gods, My Enemies” witnesses the band taking a big step with added complexity, without losing its signature dark-tones and specific atmosphere in the songs.
Line-up:
Zion Mizrachi : Vocals
Dory Gray : Guitars
Auria Sapir : Guitars
Eyal Ben Shushan : Bass
Dror Goldstein : Drums
This band is no longer active on Season of Mist.
Your Gods, My Enemies
October 14th, 2011
SOM249
LISTEN TO ETERNAL GRAY!
Posted on September 20, 2011
“Your Gods, My Enemies”, the sophomore album of Israel’s ETERNAL GRAY, will be released on October 14th (October 18th in the US). A full song from this face-melting, technical Death Metal jewel is now available for free. Download “Lost Control” here!
Read More
ETERNAL GRAY – Your Gods, My Enemies – August 3, 2011
Posted on August 3, 2011
ETERNAL GRAY named their forthcoming album “Your Gods, My Enemies”. Here are the cover artwork and tracklisting of the Israeli band’s debut on Season of Mist, to be released on October 14th (October 18th in North America).
Read More
ETERNAL GRAY RELEASE DATE
Posted on July 19, 2011
As previously announced, ETERNAL GRAY named their forthcoming album “Your Gods, My Enemies”. The Israeli band’s debut on Season of Mist will be out on October 14th (October 18th in North America).
Read More
SEASON OF MIST WELCOMES ETERNAL GRAY
Posted on May 17, 2011
Season of Mist is glad to welcome Israeli act ETERNAL GRAY to the roster. The band’s second album is entitled “Your Gods, My Enemies” and was recorded at Studio Underground, Sweden. This pure gem of technical Death Metal will hit worldwide stores next autumn.
Read More
See all Eternal Gray news
Recommended artists
Changeling
Cryptopsy
Defeated Sanity
Exocrine
Nightfall
Pessimist
Retromorphosis
VLTIMAS
Virvum
Wormhole
Company infoTerms and conditionsSitemapPrivacy PolicyContact
Most searchedHeilungMayhemRotting ChristSepticfleshDrudkh
Top styles
Death Metal / Grind
Black Metal
Buy Season of Mist products
Worldwide shop
North America shop
Season of Mist © 2025