Ottawa Foodies - View profile: OttawaNewbie
ottawa foodies
HOME
BROWSE
REVIEWS
FORUM
OttawaNewbie
24-F
active 2011 Sep 26 ·
joined 2010 Mar 24 ·
0 votes cast
OttawaNewbie's favourite foodies
Momomoto
chopper
mybluestar
yessi
Fans of OttawaNewbie
Momomoto
chopper
mybluestar
yessi
Comments
Showing comments 1 to 4
Momomoto
39-M
2010 Sep  2
Totally agree with you that we are missing good places for Latin food. It's mostly bland "Tex-Mex" and that's about it. Nary a chicharone in site.
My trip to Frontera Grill a couple years back didn't help the situation, either ;)
yessi
30-F
2010 Sep  1
I would love to try real Mexican food. After reading your great review or Ahora, I have a feeling I haven't had it!
Also, what kind of freelancing work do you do?
Chimichimi
M
2010 Sep  1
Agreed re: Ahora, it's the best taqueria in town, but compared to places south of the border it doesn't really compare. The owners are Mexican, from Mexico city, but the authenticity ends right around there. You might want to try out La Cabaña on Merivale rd, it's a Salvadoran dive but they serve really good pupusas, chorizo tacos, menudo, fried yucca & salvadoran style chicharrons which are more meaty pork cubes than fatback. Lots of expats of the latino persuasion hang out there. Another place to check out might be El Tucan, but it doesn't really compare to La Cabaña.
Cheers!
chopper
37-M
2010 Mar 24
Welcome to Ottawa!
Sandwich: Try DeRienzo's on Beech. Simple corner store that has become famous for their sandwiches.
Burger: Vera's burger (butchery) in Bell's Corners has amazing burgers. Also, Chez Lucien has great burgers in the market.
Beer: L'autre L'oeil in Aylmer has one of the biggest selection of imports and the cheapest in town. Not a large food menu though, go for the beer. Pub Italia on Preston also has a huge selection. I think Vineyards as well.
Comfort: Meatball sandwich at the Prescott on Preston. Very simple tasting but so addictive. Also, The Branch in Kemptville is just comfort all around
Bagels: Ottawa bagel shop on Wellington and Kettelman's (carling and bank-24 hours).
Comments made
Mar 24: Pubwells Restaurant
Mar 24: Pasticceria Gelateria Italiana
Sep 13: St Honoré Bakery
Sep  1: Ahora
Website copyright © 2006-2020 OttawaFoodies.com.
All rights reserved.