About Unitarian Universalism – First Unitarian Church of Oakland
Skip to content
Search for:
Search
Google Map
Something went wrong while retrieving your map.
First Unitarian Church of Oakland 685 14th Street
Oakland, CA 94612
510.893.6129
Directions
office@uuoakland.org
First Unitarian Church of Oakland
Spiritually Alive, Radically Inclusive, Justice Centered
Facebook Twitter Instagram
Location
Search
Rentals
Contact
Giving
JOIN US ONLINE & IN-PERSON, 10:30 AM ON SundayS
Toggle navigation
Menu
Main Navigation
Home
About
About Us
Our Beliefs
Our Mission and Vision
An LGBTQ Welcoming Congregation
Minister & Staff Directory
Board of Trustees
Location
News
Congregation News
Church Events Calendar
Share News and Events
Worship
About Worship
Upcoming Worship Services
What to Expect in Worship
Music at First Unitarian
Worship FAQ
Past Worship Services
Family Ministry
Welcome to Family Ministry
Children’s Ministry
Religious Education Newsletter
Connect
Visiting Us
Connecting
Newcomer Connect Card
Program Directory
Pastoral Care
Covenant Groups
Volunteer Opportunities
Become a Member
Member Directory
Giving
Rentals
Facility Rentals
Our Historic Building
About Unitarian Universalism
Unitarian Universalism creates change: in ourselves, and in the world.
Seven days a week, UUs live their faith by doing. Whether in community with others or as an individual, we know that active, tangible expressions of love, justice, and peace are what make a difference.
Unitarian Universalist congregations are committed to seven Principles that include the worth of each person, the need for justice and compassion, and the right to choose one’s own beliefs.  Our congregations and faith communities promote these principles through regular worship, learning and personal growth, shared connection and care, social justice and service, celebration of life’s transitions, and much more.
Our faith tradition is diverse and inclusive. We grew from the union of two radical Christian groups: the Universalists, who organized in 1793, and the Unitarians, who organized in 1825. They joined to become the UUA in 1961. Both groups trace their roots in North America to the early Massachusetts settlers and the Framers of the Constitution. Across the globe, our legacy reaches back centuries to liberal religious pioneers in England, Poland, and Transylvania. Today, Unitarian Universalists include people of many beliefs who share UU values of peace, love, and understanding. We are creators of positive change in people and in the world.
Section Navigation
About UsOur Beliefs
UU Principles and Sources
About Unitarian Universalism
Our Mission and Vision
An LGBTQ Welcoming Congregation
Minister & Staff Directory
Board of Trustees
Board Minutes & Reports
Bylaws, Policies & Procedures
Annual Meeting Reports
Location
Our Next ServiceSunday March 30, 2025 – Advancing Justice at the Speed of TrustMarch 30, 2025 10:30amLed by Worship Associates Jane Facente and Emily Stoper, Music by Crescendo Choir, Speaker Vice President Cassandra Ryan of the UUSCCassandra Ryan, Vice President of the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee (UUSC) will lead this service, along with Worship Associates Jane Facente and Emily Stoper. This is our annual occasion to find inspiration in and raise funds for the UUSC and its vital work in advancing human rights through grassroots partnerships around the world. There will … Continue reading Sunday March 30, 2025 – Advancing Justice at the Speed of Trust
We have moved “Recent News” to our weekly e-newsletter “Chalice Chatter”!
First Unitarian Church of Oakland 685 14th Street
Oakland, CA 94612
510.893.6129
Directions
office@uuoakland.org
Chalice Chatter Email Newsletter Sign-Up
* indicates required
Email Address  *
First Name
Last Name
© 2025 First Unitarian Church of Oakland
Facebook Twitter Instagram