The International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book Club – Starring the Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys
Skip to content Skip to footerSearchThe International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book ClubStarring the Pulpwood Queens and Timber GuysWelcome to Our NEW Kathy L. Murphy Big Book Love website Coming Soon!
2024 BOOK CLUB OFFICIAL PICKS
About
CALENDAR OF EVENTS
New Authors List
Pulpwood Newsletter
Blog
Kathy L. Murphy’s Art
Decorate Ornate
Store
My Book
The International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book Club Reading Nation!
Join The International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book Club and be a Member of the World's Largest Meeting and Discussing Book Clubs with Local Chapters and Authors all over the World!Join Us TodayGet More InfoWelcome to the December 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!Paul RobersonDecember 1, 2024Welcome to the December 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!       Thank you for taking…
Continue Reading Welcome to the December 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!
New Author Members – November 2024Paul RobersonDecember 1, 2024Welcome Our New Pulpwood Authors! Anonymous Debra confronts the fear of inheriting mental illness when her…
Continue Reading New Author Members – November 2024
Welcome to the November 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!
New Author Members – October 2024
Welcome to the October 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!
Read More PostsOfficial 2024 International Pulpwood Queen and Timber Guy Book Club Selections
Official 2024 International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book Club Reading Nation Books of the Month
January Book of the Month:
"Lady Tan's Circle of Women: A Novel" by Lisa See
January International Book of the Month:
"Once And For All: Book Two: Winds of Fire Series" by Anju Gattani
January Bonus Book Club Selections:
"How to Write a Novel in 20 Pies" by Amy Wallen
"The Marsh King's Daughter" by Karen … Continue Reading... about Official 2024 International Pulpwood Queen and Timber Guy Book Club Selections
New Pulpwood Authors
New Author Members – November 2024December 1, 2024 By Paul Roberson Leave a CommentWelcome Our New Pulpwood Authors!
Anonymous
Debra confronts the fear of inheriting mental illness when her husband moves her into a …Continue Reading about New Author Members – November 2024
Pulpwood News
Welcome to the May 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!May 5, 2024 By Paul Roberson Leave a CommentWelcome to the May 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!
Thank you for taking the time to read the latest issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter.
We have put a lot of work into communicating better with our members and hope …Continue Reading about Welcome to the May 2024 Cover Issue of the Pulpwood Newsletter!
Pulpwood News
2021 International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Virtual Online ZoomathonDecember 2, 2020 By Paul Roberson Leave a Comment2021 International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Virtual Online Zoomathon Book Club Convention that we call our Girlfriend Weekend Slumber Party!
(all attending are encouraged to where their pajamas including all our authors, presenters, bloggers, …Continue Reading about 2021 International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Virtual Online Zoomathon
Pulpwood News
The Pulpwood Queen Announces her 2021 Official Reads!December 1, 2020 By Kathy Murphy Leave a CommentPress Release for Immediate Release:
December 1, 2020
Dear International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book Club Members, Authors, Readers, and Book Lovers everywhere!
Go diverse, go global! Let's roam and explore around the world with my …Continue Reading about The Pulpwood Queen Announces her 2021 Official Reads!
Welcome Book Club Members
Welcome to Our NEW Kathy L. Murphy Big Book Love website Coming Soon!Welcome to the Wonderful World of The International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Book Club Reading Nation!
Join our NEW Facebook Group page: Kathy L. Murphy Big Book Love and introduce yourself!
And you can follow Kathy L. Murphy, THE Pulpwood Queen on Twitter - Instagram - Facebook
- … Continue Reading... about Welcome to Our NEW Kathy L. Murphy Big Book Love website Coming Soon!
About
AboutKathy Ramsperger post at https://shoresofoursouls.com/2021/05/three-pulpwood-girlfriends-on-the-road/?fbclid=IwAR2KeojMLtdEebz6x8N-q_XFl-h0tVb6NZtt1gUvnKjBIMvBDfCa3a36DCc
Kathy L. Murphy featured on Lovelace Cook’s Bollywood & Books Podcast at http://www.lovelacecook.com
Get to know Kathy L Murphy, the Pulpwood Queen, and The International … Continue Reading... about About
Kathy’s Book
Kathy L. Murphy’s BookThe Pulpwood Queen's Tiara-Wearing, Book-Sharing Guide to Life
You can grab a copy of Kathy's Books at all online bookstores.
Click Here to read Susan Cushman's Blog about the Book
Mainstreet Reads
You can find Kathy's books at Main Street Reads - the Official Online Independent Bookstore for the International Pulpwood Queens … Continue Reading... about Kathy L. Murphy’s Book
Calendar of Events
CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Friday, February 9, 2024 at 5:00 p.m. Central Standard Time I will be doing a Zoom meeting featuring our 2024 February Book of the Month Authors as follows to listen, learn, then join the conversation at:
Kathy L. Murphy is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting.
Join Zoom … Continue Reading... about CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Media
MediaClaire Fullerton is with Kathy L. Murphy.
July 2 at 1:58 PM ·
Congratulations to Kathy L. Murphy, for being named as one of 4 finalists in the national Cinderella to CEO awards Rapunzel Category. The Cinderella to CEO Awards has 9 categories, inspired by the wildly successful book ( published in 10 languages) "From … Continue Reading... about Media
Convention
Breathless Bubbles and Books
Breathless Bubbles and BooksWhen it comes down to it, Breathless Wines is a family affair, built by the love of three sisters, Sharon, Rebecca, and Cynthia, and the passion for life that their mother passed down to them. … Continue Reading... about Breathless Bubbles and Books
Newsletter
Pulpwood NewsletterThere are new changes and improvements coming to the Pulpwood Newsletter and to the International Pulpwood Queens and Timber Guys Reading Nation over the next couple months. We are excited to share those announcements with you and hope you will enjoy them.
The format for our monthly Pulpwood Newsletter Covers Issue are highlights of the most … Continue Reading... about Pulpwood Newsletter
Advertising
Follow Kathy Murphy on Social Media
FacebookInstagramLinkedInPinterestTwitter
Earnings Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact
Copyright  www.thepulpwoodqueens.com © 2025 Log in