County Seats & Courthouses Cambria - Cumberland
WELCOME
County Seats & Courthouses:
Dauphin - Huntingdon
WELCOME
Dauphin County,
Harrisburg
(pop. 48,950). HARRISBURG,
an inset from County Map of the State of Pennsylvania
from Mitchell's New General Atlas of 1876. S.
Augustus Mitchell and his son Jr. published many maps of
Pennsylvania over the years. This particular one
contained insets of Erie, Williamsport, Scranton, and the
city of Harrisburg shown here. In addition to being a
county seat, Harrisburg is also the state capitol. The
courthouse sits right along the river overlooking the
Harrisburg Bridge, and south of the
State Capitol Building
. Today, just upstream of the
courthouse and not on this map, a pedestrian bridge
stretches over the river affording a fine view of the
city and its buildings. Harrisburg is a compromise
capitol city agreed in the early nineteenth century after
western politicians raised a fuss about traveling all the
way to Philadelphia, a real hardship in those days. They
also worried about the undue influence Philadelphia had
on state affairs. Philadelphia politicians refused to
cross any mountains to get to the capitol, or even any
rivers, hence Harrisburg.
The Courthouse (1943). A
log cabin built by John Harris, the founder of the town,
was used as a courthouse until a brick courthouse was put
up. This building became the state capitol from 1812
until 1822 when the first capitol building was ready. A
second brick courthouse was built in 1860 and enlarged in
1894. The present building was dedicated in 1943 and sits
facing the Susquehanna River about three blocks south of
the capitol. It is built in the Art Moderne style, and
resembles many Federal Government buildings, post offices,
Federal courthouses, Federal Reserve banks, built in the
same style around the same time as part of the effort to
spend the country out of depression. The building has a
decorative iconography, describe in part by Williams
quote: "This building likely has more words carved
in stone than any other courthouse in the nation, though
I know of no records kept on the subject. It is a
showcase for marble, wood, and terrazzo and is loaded
with iconography rendered in these and other materials,
including etched glass." This courthouse is as
handsome from the
rear
as from the front, one of the
few of which that can be said. This is a wonderful
building, as impressive in its way as the more imposing
state capitol up the street, and not to be missed by
courthouse acolytes.
Delaware County,
Media
(pop. 5,530). This
map is a small section from Franklin's Map and Guide of
"Eastern" Delaware County, Pa., published by
Franklin Survey Co., Philadelphia 1959. The location of
the courthouse is indicated by the map. After Delaware
County was split from Chester County in 1789, the county
seat remained at the city of Chester until about 1850
when it moved to the more central borough of Media.
Chester is likely the oldest town in the state as it sits
on the site of the original Swedish settlement of Uplandt
founded in the early 1640s. It is also the site of the
oldest extant
courthouse
in the state, built in 1724
with some (slight) later changes. This building was the
courthouse for Chester County until the seat moved to
West Chester in 1786. It then served as the Delaware
County courthouse until the move to Media. Some history
is on a
plaque
affixed to the front.
According to another plaque it is the oldest public
building in continuous use in the country. Someone will
have to explain why the Merion Golf Club is a National
Historic Landmark, and this building is not. Media is a
much newer place, incorporated as a borough in 1850,
round about the time the seat moved there.
The Courthouse (1913). The
first Media
courthouse
was a relatively simple
structure that apparently has continuously been added to
ever since. A
plaque
in front gives some building
history. The major rebuilding giving the present look was
in 1920, resulting in a Neoclassic style with a broad
front, really broad, covering two Media blocks. However,
the county website dates their building to 1913 with this
description: "A unique mix of old and modern
architecture, the Courthouse is of the Classical Revival
style made with Georgia White Marble on the exterior, and
was erected in 1913." In the terms used here, the
building is Neoclassic with an entrance portico on a
broad front. (The Classical Revival term is used here to
denote the long and narrow buildings of circa 1850
vintage with portico and bell tower.) The
central part
of the courthouse including
the entrance dates to 1913 , a six column Ionic portico
with a clock in the pediment and a slope-roofed shed
above for a tower. The columns are repeated on the sides
of the projecting 1920 end bays, which harmoniously match
the earlier building. An incongruous (in fact, downright
ugly) 1985
structure
, called the Government Center,
is connected to the rear of the courthouse and now
accomodates some courthouse functions.
Elk County,
Ridgway
(pop. 4,590).
RIDGWAY, ELK COUNTY PENNSYLVANIA, 1895, drawn by T. M.
Fowler, Morrisville, Pa., published by T. M. Fowler &
James B. Moyer. This is a panoramic, or bird's eye view
map, from the Library of Congress. The present courthouse,
with its back to the camera and without later additions,
is shown. Ridgway is not the largest town in the county,
that honor goes to St. Marys which mounted a campaign to
become the seat, and failed.
The Courthouse (1879). The
present Second Empire style courthouse was built in 1879,
and remains essentially unaltered outside, though not
inside. A significant restoration was done in the 1970s
including the building of an annex on the right side
attached by an enclosed hall. There is also a modern
connection at the rear to the jail. The structure is
built of native sandstone and red brick, which seems to
be the color of choice for courthouse brick. There is
elegant stone trim on all the corners and the windows,
which are narrow and arched in the Italianate style. The
courthouse sits in a spacious park with several memorials,
one unfortunately sited too close to the entrance as the
photo shows.
Erie County,
Erie
(pop. 103,720). PLAN
OF THE CITY OF ERIE, a map from Atlas of Erie County
Pennsylvania, by F. W. Beers, published by F. W.
Beers, A. D. Ellis & G. G. Soule, New York 1865. The
original west wing of the present courthouse is shown on
Sixth Street, a half block west of the Public Square, now
called Perry Square. Today, the additions at the back and
the east wing take up more of the block. As the map shows,
Erie has a model rectangular layout, allowed by the flat
land next to the lake. Pennsylvania purchased the
northern part of Erie County from New York in 1792 after
it was discovered that the 42nd parallel passed south of
the lake shore. The lake location does not have the
transportation importance it once held, and Erie is now
primarily a manufacturing center. There is one other city
in the county, Corry.
The Courthouse (1855). The
original courthouse sat in the Square as shown in this
view
, the building with the belfry.
The double wing design of the present Neoclassic
courthouse is unique. The west section (to the left) was
opened in 1855 and enlarged around 1890, when the
original bell tower was also removed. The east wing was
added in 1929 as a carbon copy of the west with the two
connected at the rear, an ingenious idea. Today, there
are modern annexes at the back, and around 2001 a new
entrance was built in the space between the wings as part
of a general courthouse restoration project.
Fayette County,
Uniontown
(pop. 12,420). UNIONTOWN,
from Atlas of the County of Fayette and the State of
Pennsylvania, published by G. M. Hopkins & Co.,
Philadelphia 1872. The courthouse sits at a bend in Main
Steet as shown on this county atlas map, although the map
shows the old building, built in 1845, and replaced along
with the jail in 1892. Uniontown is the western gateway
to the Laurel Highlands, a prime tourist spot. There is
one other city in the county, Connellsville, popular now
as a pit stop on the Allegheny Highlands bike trail from
Pittsburgh to Cumberland.
The Courthouse (1892). This
is a miniature version of the Richardson Allegheny County
courthouse done by other architects in 1892, complete
with a '
bridge of signs
' to the jail at the back. The
building is not symmetric, and the main street in
Uniontown goes by what is really the left side which has
an entrance through a large Romanesque arch. The smaller
entrance under the tower opens onto a side street. There
is a modern annex to the right. The complex of courthouse,
annex, and jail occupies a block, and there is little
open ground around the buildings.
Forest County,
Tionesta
(pop. 620). TIONESTA,
FOREST COUNTY, PA. 1896, drawn by T. M. Fowler,
Morrisville, Pa., published by T. M. Fowler & James B.
Moyer. This is a town view from the Library of Congress.
The courthouse shown is the present building, sans the
bell tower. Tionesta was once logging country and today
serves as a hub for hunting, fishing, and camping
activities. It is the only borough in the county.
The Courthouse (1869). The
first county seat was at Marien, now called Marienville,
and moved to Tionesta in 1867. The courthouse was built
in 1869, and its look today can be compared to this
closeup
view
from the panoramic map; the
bell tower is now gone. Forest is the least populated
county (around 5000 lonely souls) and its courthouse
needs are correspondingly modest. Nevertheless, this
small building has some nice Italianate touches; the most
prominent being a
Palladian window
over the entrance. There is
also a peaked roofline with a lunette and narrow arched
windows. As can be seen from the photo, the courthouse
sits on a large and woodsy, or maybe "Foresty",
lot obscuring the building.
Franklin
County,
Chambersburg
(pop. 17,860). CHAMBERSBURG,
PENNSYLVANIA., Burned by Rebel Cavalry July 30th, 1864.
1895, drawn by T. M. Fowler, Morrisville, Pa., published
by T. M. Fowler & James B. Moyer. This is a bird's
eye view, or panoramic map, from the Library of Congress.
The present courthouse is shown in the view, right on the
town square with its back to the camera. Today the square
is paved over for parking except for a large fountain in
the center.  The
Courthouse (1864). The old courthouse was
destroyed by Confederate troops in 1864 and some pieces
were used in the present building. As a
rear view
better shows, this is a large
building for the time and the county fathers (there were
no county mothers then) were looking ahead. It is built
of red brick in the Classical Revival style with front
portico and bell tower. An unusual feature of the tower
is the ballastrade decoration; one guess who the figure
on top might be. (Hint: He seems to be holding a
lightning rod.) There is extensive decorative bracketing
under all the eaves. The windows are square without
decoration, although the ground floor ones are all
shuttered. The exterior sits much as originally built,
although interior renovations have been made. This 1864
building is now the old courthouse. A 1979
courthouse
(or annex) is directly to the
rear and connected by an enclosed pedestrian bridge, and
now contains most courthouse functions. It is built of
reddish brick in a utilitarian style, presumably trying
to match the old courthouse color.
Fulton County,
McConnellsburg
(pop. 1,070). MCCONNELLSBURG,
from Atlas of Fulton County, Pennsylvania,
compiled and published by Frank P. Plessinger, county
surveyor, Francis M. Taylor, C.E., McConnellsburg, Pa.
1916. This map identifies the present courthouse (C.H.)
right on the town square. This small square is made even
smaller by being quartered by an intersection, and what
is left has been paved as a parking lot for the
courthouse. Fortunately a small park lies to the west
side of the courthouse and even has a bandstand.
McConnellsburg is the only borough in this small county.
The Courthouse (1851). This
is the original county courthouse built in 1851
immediately after the county was formed in 1850. It has
the added distinction of being intact as built with
modest interior renovations and well worth visiting for
that reason. This courthouse is a simple brick Classical
Revival style building with a six column portico, and a
small window in the shingled pediment. An open tower sits
over the front and a tall chimney sticks up from the rear.
Several of the surrounding homes have been appropriated
for county annexes and others renovated into lawyer
offices, a common occurrence in small county seats.
Greene County,
Waynesburg
(pop. 4,180). MAP
OF WAYNESBURG, GREENE CO. PA., from
Caldwell's Illustrated,
Historical Centennial Atlas of Greene County,
Pennsylvania, published by J. A. Caldwell, Condit,
Ohio 1876. Only the center portion of this large foldout
map is shown here. The location of the present courthouse
along High Street is indicated; the jail and sheriff's
home shown on the map were demolished when the courthouse
was later enlarged. The old log courthouse on Greene
Street is also indicated by a red dot on this map.
Waynesburg is the largest town in this rural county, and
home to a fine small college of the same name founded in
1849. In 1853 it was one of the first two colleges in the
state to award degrees to women (the other was
Westminster College in Lawrence County).
The Courthouse (1850). The
first courthouse, built of logs after the county was
formed in 1796, was removed from the present site and
reassembled on Greene Street where it accomodated
numerous uses over the years. It was restored in 2002
with a modern visitor's entrance in the back, and is the
only surviving original frontier
log courthouse
in Pennsylvania.The second
courthouse can be seen on the left in this circa 1840
view.
The present Classical Revival
courthouse on High Street occupies the entire block. The
front is the original stucture built in 1850 of brick.
Additions were added around 1880 at the back resulting in
a "T" shaped structure. These additions were
partially demolished and replaced in 1988 with more
modern and useful buildings. Restoration work was also
done to the front original courthouse, and the inside
modernized. The tower over the portico has a recent
statue of Nathaniel Greene (Revolutionary War) on top
replacing an older deteriorated one. The photo can be
compared to this 1876
atlas view
of the original courthouse
sans its later additions.
Huntingdon
County,
Huntingdon
(pop. 6,920). WARDS
OF HUNTINGDON, HUNTINGDON CO., from Atlas Blair and
Huntingdon Counties Pennsylvania, published by A.
Pomeroy & Co., Philadelphia 1873. The county and seat
have the same name, true for many Pennsylvania counties.
However, this one is often misspelled; it's a "d",
not a "t", named after Selina Hastings,
Countess of Huntingdon. The town lies along the Juniata
River downstream of Hollidaysburg and remnants of the old
Pennsylvania Canal are shown on this map. The old
courthouse is marked and this is also the location of the
present building although the grounds now take up most of
the block.  The
Courthouse (1883). This brick structure sits
along the main street in Huntingdon and is a mixture of
styles. It has an Italianate look, with arched windows
and running horizontal trim; but no quoins on the corners.
The clock tower rises in three stages with a little
hemisphere on top. The building dates to 1883 although
the original tower was taken down and replaced in 1930.
There is a modern annex two blocks away where much of the
routine courthouse business is done.
County
Seats
Adams-Butler
Cambria-Cumberland
Dauphin-Huntingdon
Indiana-Lycoming
McKean-Potter
Schuylkill-York
Home Page
16th Century Maps
17th Century Maps
18th Century Maps
19th Century Maps
20th Century Maps
References