Department of Textile & Apparel Management
Department of Textile & Apparel Management
Skip to navigation
Skip to content
MU LogoUniversity of Missouri
Calendar
Search
search
Department of Textile & Apparel Management
menu
Aboutarrow_drop_down
About TAM
People
Undergraduate
Graduate
Historic Collection
News
Facilities
Careers
Giving
Contact
Welcome to TAM
Innovative Leaders in the Global Fashion Supply Chain
Where students learn both the art and science of the fashion industry!
The Department of Textile & Apparel Management, in the College of Arts and Science, is a global leader focusing on the apparel and textile supply chain. TAM’s award-winning faculty is internationally recognized. Ranked as one of the top programs of its kind, TAM prepares students for a wide variety of career options such as merchandising, buying, sourcing, product development, technical design, e-retailing, or retail operations. The curriculum focuses on leadership, the global supply chain, sustainability, creativity/innovation, and technology. Through course work, field study experiences, internships, leadership conferences, and student organizations, TAM students develop the skills they need to be a top recruit for industry positions.
About TAM    Mission, Vision & Values
Bachelor of Science
TAM offers academic options that meet the wide variety of career plans available to students with degrees in Textile and Apparel Management. These options prepare TAM students for careers in the exciting textile and apparel industry. TAM students can also earn minors and certificates that enhance their degree.
CONTACT DIRECTOR OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES
Master of Science
Our MS program is an individualized plan of study. Each program varies based on student interest, background, and ability. Through coursework, internships, study tours, student organizations, and interaction with industry experts, students learn about careers in the field. Meet our TAM graduate students.
CONTACT DIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES
Doctor of Philosophy
Our PhD Program is one of only a few programs in the country that offers a PhD in Textile and Apparel Management. Graduate work in TAM offers students a strong faculty base, superior research expertise, comprehensive library access, computer labs, interdisciplinary and intercollegiate research opportunities.
CONTACT DIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDIES
Study Abroad or Domestic Study Tour
Experiential Learning
Careers
Career Services
TAM News
News/Events
Missouri Historic Costume and Textile Collection
Costume Collection
Mizzou Textile and Apparel Management
MU LogoUniversity of Missouri
Contact us
Department of Textile and Apparel Management
mestresj@missouri.edu
137 Stanley Hall
Columbia, MO 65211
Phone: (573) 882-6425
Fax: (573) 882-3289
Facebook
Instagram
Linkedin
go to Facebook page
go to LinkedIn page
go to Instagram page
Make a Gift to TAM
Your generous donations make a difference in the lives of students.
Make a Gift Online
College of Arts & Science
Taking on the grand challenges facing our world.
TAM is a part of the College of Arts & Science.
Visit A&S
MU is an equal opportunity employer.
© 2025 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy
expand_less