Bravo 'Work Out' trainer Doug Blasdell unexpectedly dies at age 44 -  Reality TV World
Show Updates
People News
Spoiler News
Entertainment News
RealityTVDB
POP Hollywood
Reality TV News Wire
Features & Interviews
Sexy Social Pics of the Day
Things to Know Profiles
Message Boards
Shows Listing
90 Day Fiance
The Amazing Race
American Idol
America's Got Talent
America's Next Top Model
Bachelor in Paradise
The Bachelor
The Bachelorette
Big Brother
Celebrity Big Brother
Counting On
Dance Moms
Dancing with the Stars
Fixer Upper
Flip or Flop
Hell's Kitchen
Keeping Up with the Kardashians
Love After Lockup
Marriage Boot Camp
Married at First Sight
MasterChef
Paradise Hotel
Project Runway
The Real Housewives
Shark Tank
So You Think You Can Dance
Survivor
Teen Mom
Temptation Island
Top Chef
The Voice
World of Dance
More Shows
HOME > Work Out
Bravo 'Work Out' trainer Doug Blasdell unexpectedly dies at age 44
By Christopher Rocchio and Steve Rogers, 01/24/2007
Doug Blasdell, a 44-year-old gay trainer on Bravo's reality series Work Out, unexpectedly died on Monday after being hospitalized over the weekend for unknown reasons.
ADVERTISEMENT
Bravo confirmed Blasdell's death in a statement released Tuesday afternoon:
"All of us at Bravo are deeply saddened by the terrible news of Doug Blasdell's untimely passing.  He was an inspiring trainer, an exuberant colleague who made the gym a very fun place each and every day and was extraordinarily warm in all aspects of his life. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his many friends and colleagues at this very difficult time."
According to his Bravo website biography, Blasdell was born in Los Angeles, CA to a middle class family.  After becoming the first member of his family to attend college and putting himself through school at University of Southern California, he decided during his senior year that he wanted to be a trainer. That same year, he also came out and told his parents that he was gay.
Work Out, a reality series that followed the daily activities of fitness expert Jackie Warner's Sky Sport and Spa in Beverly Hills, CA, premiered on Bravo in July 2006.  The indoor/outdoor gym's clients include numerous celebrities and members of the entertainment industry.
Three of the eight trainers featured on Work Out's first season, including both Warner and Blasdell, are gay.  Former The Amazing Race 6 contestant Rebecca Cardon is also one of the gym's trainers.  In July 2006, Blasdell gave an interview to AfterElton.com, a website for and about gay and bisexual men in entertainment and media industries.
Work Out trainer Doug Blasdell poses in a first season publicity photo (photo credit Bravo/Kevin Lynch.)"The three [gay trainers on Work Out] give different examples of what it is to be gay. And none of it is negative," Blasdell told AfterElton.com.  "There's nobody voted off. It's about taking care of yourself and eating right. It really is about being a trainer. Yeah, we drink alcohol, but the show represents healthy living. Physically and emotionally."
Blasdell said he had "an idea" of what Work Out would be like before filming for the series started.
"When I took the job here's what was most important to me: to portray a gay man as a healthy guy who is somewhat good looking and normal. Not over the top gay," Blasdell told AfterElton.com.  "That's important because Hollywood doesn't show that a lot... I want to portray a real gay man for those people in Nebraska that are afraid to come out."
Blasdell said by appearing on Work Out, he also hoped to "show that you can be in your 40's and still have a good body and have a healthy lifestyle."
"I know a lot of 40-year-olds let their body's go. You can have great abs and be forty-three. You just have to work out two or three days a week," he told AfterElton.com.  "And I saw it as an opportunity to be a role model."
Last October, Bravo announced it was about was going to begin production on a new six-episode second season of Work Out in November.  While the network's announcement stated Warner's "fierce team of trainers, some old and some new" would return for the series' second season, it's unknown if Blasdell was participating in the new season's production.
1/25 UPDATE:  According to a Bravo spokesperson contacted by Reality TV World, Blasdell had been participating in Work Out's second season production, which was in its final stages when he was hospitalized.  Blasdell will remain part of Work Out's second season cast, however no additional details regarding how Blasdell's death will impact the remaining production or be addressed in the show are currently available.  Work Out remains on track to debut its new season on Monday, March 19.
FOLLOW REALITY TV WORLD ON THE ALL-NEW GOOGLE NEWS!
Reality TV World is now available on the all-new Google News app and website. Click here to visit our Google News page, and then click FOLLOW to add us as a news source!
About The Author:
Christopher Rocchio
Christopher Rocchio is an entertainment reporter for Reality TV World and has covered the reality TV genre for several years. FOLLOW REALITY TV WORLD ON GOOGLE NEWS
WORK OUT
MORE WORK OUT NEWS
<< PRIOR STORY Ivana Trump calls The Donald, Rosie O'Donnell feud "marketing tool"NEXT STORY >>Former 'Idol 5' finalist Chris Daughtry tops charts after nine weeksGet more Reality TV World!  Follow us on Twitter, like us on Facebook or add our RSS feed.
ADVERTISEMENT
Greg Plitt was reportedly attempting to outrun speeding train for commercial but tripped and fell to death Former 'Work Out' and upcoming 'Friends to Lovers' star Greg Plitt struck and killed by trainBravo announces 'Work Out's third season to premiere April 15Reality TV producer sues ex-agent over theft of 'Work Out' formatBravo to air 'Work Out: Trainer's Day Off' special on October 24 'The Bachelor's Juliana Pasquarosa reacts to Grant Ellis' love for Litia Garr 'Married at First Sight' star Karla Juarez: Juan Franco lied on our wedding day Litia Garr: Grant Ellis promised I'd be his 'The Bachelor' winner on our first date and he "never let up" 'Married at First Sight' Couples: Where are they now? Who's still together? (PHOTOS)                  'The Bachelor' alum Nick Viall's wife Natalie Joy suffers second miscarriage  'The Bachelor': Grant Ellis blindsides Litia Garr and gets engaged to Juliana Pasquarosa  'Bachelor in Paradise' Season 10 twist and new cast members announced 'Married at First Sight' star Karla Juarez breaks silence on Juan Franco's claims -- "You look silly as f-ck"
ADVERTISEMENT
Rebecca CardonJimmy Fallon's 'The Tonight Show' dropping to only four nights a weekAshley Tisdale announces birth of her second childSelena Gomez is a billionaire'911 Lone Star' fifth season will be its last on FOX'Beacon 23' and 'The Winter King' canceled by MGM+'The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power' Season 2 trailer teases Siege of Eregion'Bad Monkey' star Natalie Martinez: Vince Vaughn is the perfect partnerChanning Tatum would do "terrible things" to make 'Gambit' movie happen'Only Murders in the Building' trio investigate Sazz's death in Season 4 trailer'The Monkey' movie teaser shows blood-soaked Theo James'Modern Family' star Julie Bowen stars in Peacock's new 'Hysteria!''The Gilded Age' adds Merritt Wever, Leslie Uggams and more to Season 3 cast'Twisters' movie released on digital platformsJared Padalecki joining 'Fire Country' for Season 3Netflix sets 'The Diplomat' Season 2 premiere dateKylie Minogue strikes a pose in 'My Oh My' music videoH.E.R. to perform at Paris Olympics closing ceremony'SEAL Team' star David Boreanaz experiencing full range of emotions as series wrapsMichelle Pfeiffer to star in new 'Yellowstone' spin-off 'Madison''One Fast Move' star K.J. Apa: "I love stories about redemption"
Page generated Tue Mar 25, 2025 20:21 pm in 0.74386692047119 seconds
About Reality TV World   •
Advertise on Reality TV World  •
Contact Reality TV World  •
Privacy Policy   •
RSS Feed
Top Shows:
90 Day Fiance ·
The Amazing Race ·
American Idol ·
America's Got Talent ·
America's Next Top Model ·
·
The Bachelor ·
The Bachelorette ·
Big Brother ·
Dance Moms ·
Duck Dynasty ·
Hell's Kitchen ·
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ·
Married at First Sight ·
MasterChef ·
Pawn Stars ·
Project Runway ·
The Real Housewives ·
The Real World ·
Shark Tank ·
So You Think You Can Dance  ·
Survivor ·
Teen Mom ·
Top Chef ·
The Voice
Top People:
Colton Underwood ·
Becca Kufrin ·
Arie Luyendyk Jr. ·
Rachel Lindsay ·
Nick Viall ·
Jojo Fletcher ·
Ben Higgins ·
Kaitlyn Bristowe ·
Chris Soules ·
Andi Dorfman ·
Juan Pablo Galavis ·
Desiree Hartsock ·
Sean Lowe ·
Emily Maynard ·
Ben Flajnik ·
Ashley Hebert ·
Brad Womack ·
Ali Fedotowsky ·
Jake Pavelka ·
Jillian Harris ·
Jason Mesnick ·
DeAnna Pappas ·
Matt Grant ·
Andy Baldwin ·
Lorenzo Borghese ·
Travis Stork ·
Charlie O'Connell ·
Byron Velvick ·
Jen Schefft ·
Andrew Firestone ·
Aaron Buerge ·
Trista Rehn ·
Cassie Randolph ·
Tayshia Adams ·
Hannah Godwin ·
Caelynn Miller-Keyes ·
Hannah Brown ·
Demi Burnett ·
Lincoln Adim ·
Leo Dottavio ·
Blake Horstmann ·
Chris Randone ·
Jason Tartick ·
Garrett Yrigoyen ·
Tia Booth ·
Lauren Burnham ·
Kendall Long ·
Jenna Cooper ·
Maquel Cooper ·
Jenny Delaney ·
Seinne Fleming ·
Olivia Goethals ·
Lauren Jarreau ·
Britt Johnson ·
Bibiana Julian ·
Caroline Lunny ·
Bekah Martinez ·
Marikh Mathias ·
Krystal Nielson ·
Nysha Norris ·
Annaliese Puccini ·
Chelsea Roy ·
Jacqueline Trumbull ·
Bryan Abasolo ·
Vanessa Grimaldi ·
Jordan Rodgers ·
Lauren Bushnell ·
Wells Adams ·
Danielle Maltby ·
Carly Waddell ·
Evan Bass ·
Jade Roper ·
Shawn Booth ·
Peter Kraus ·
Josh Murray ·
Whitney Bischoff ·
Nikki Ferrell ·
Catherine Giudici ·
Courtney Robertson ·
Molly Malaney ·
Tenley Molzahn ·
Melissa Rycroft ·
Dean Unglert ·
Kristina Schulman ·
Danielle Lombard ·
Clare Crawley ·
Becca Tilley ·
Caila Quinn ·
Emily Ferguson ·
Haley Ferguson ·
Amanda Stanton ·
Ashley Iaconetti ·
Juelia Kinney ·
Lindzi Cox ·
Samantha Steffen ·
Ashley Salter ·
Lauren Himle ·
Lace Morris ·
Corinne Olympios ·
DeMario Jackson ·
Taylor Nolan ·
Derek Peth ·
Raven Gates ·
Jasmine Goode ·
Matt Munson ·
Sarah Vendal ·
Lacey Mark ·
Jack Stone ·
Daniel Maguire ·
Jaimi King ·
Dominique Alexis ·
Christen Whitney ·
Jonathan Treece ·
Diggy Moreland ·
Robby Hayes ·
Luke Pell ·
Sarah Herron ·
Grant Kemp ·
Jenna Johnson ·
Kevin Schlehuber ·
Raven Walton ·
Paul Abrahamian ·
Cody Nickson ·
Jessica Graf ·
Christmas Abbott ·
Alex Ow ·
Josh Martinez ·
Mark Jansen ·
Jason Dent ·
Matt Clines ·
Top Spoilers:
90 Day Fiance Spoilers ·
The Bachelor Spoilers ·
The Bachelorette Spoilers ·
The Bachelor and The Bachelorette Facebook Group
Top Couples:
90 Day Fiance Couples: Where are they now? ·
90 Day Fiance Before the 90 Days Couples: Where are they now? ·
The Amazing Race Couples: Where are they now? ·
Dancing with the Stars Couples: Who is dating or married to whom? ·
The Bachelor Franchise Couples: Who is still together? ·
The Bachelor Couples: Where are they now? ·
The Bachelorette Couples: Where are they now? ·
Big Brother Showmance Couples: Where are they now? ·
Married at First Sight Couples: Who is still together? ·
Survivor Couples: Where are they now?
All logos and trademarks presented are property of their respective owner.
All site content is © 2000-2019 Reality TV World and may not be republished or reproduced without Reality TV World's expressed written permission.
This website has been solely developed and presented by Reality TV World, and is in no way authorized or connected with any network, station affiliate, or broadcasting sponsor.