Alert 5 - Aviation News
Skip to content
Alert 5
Aviation News
About
Privacy Policy
101st Airborne Division’s Aviation Brigade Assesses Advanced CH-47F Block II Chinook at Fort Campbell
Posted on March 26, 2025March 25, 2025 by alert5
Soldiers from the 101st Combat Aviation Brigade (CAB), 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), have conducted a crucial operational assessment of the Boeing CH-47F Block II Chinook helicopter at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, according to a DVIDS article published on Mar. 20th.
101st Combat Aviation Brigade Soldiers conduct operational assessment of the Block II CH-47F at Fort Campbell, Ky.
Photo by Sgt. Matthew Wantroba
Continue reading “101st Airborne Division’s Aviation Brigade Assesses Advanced CH-47F Block II Chinook at Fort Campbell”
Posted in ArmyLeave a Comment on 101st Airborne Division’s Aviation Brigade Assesses Advanced CH-47F Block II Chinook at Fort Campbell
Jakarta meeting seeks to revive stalled KF-21 fighter program
Posted on March 25, 2025March 25, 2025 by alert5
Defense officials from South Korea and Indonesia have recently convened in Jakarta in a bid to breathe new life into the troubled KF-21 joint fighter jet development program. The high-level meeting, the first of its kind since a sensitive technology leak incident involving Indonesian engineers came to light, saw Seoul’s Defense Acquisition Program Administration (DAPA) head, Seok Jong-gun, engage with Indonesian Vice Defense Minister Donny Ermawan Taufanto to discuss avenues for bolstering defense cooperation, with the KF-21 initiative taking center stage.
Indonesia Ministry of Defense
Continue reading “Jakarta meeting seeks to revive stalled KF-21 fighter program”
Posted in IndustryLeave a Comment on Jakarta meeting seeks to revive stalled KF-21 fighter program
Sri Lanka Air Force K-8 crashes in Kurunegala
Posted on March 22, 2025 by alert5
A Chinese-built K-8 trainer aircraft belonging to the Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) crashed in the Wariyapola area, Kurunegala, Mar. 21st. The aircraft, which is used for advanced pilot training at the SLAF Base in Katunayake, was undertaking a routine training exercise at the time of the incident.
Continue reading “Sri Lanka Air Force K-8 crashes in Kurunegala”
Posted in Air ForceLeave a Comment on Sri Lanka Air Force K-8 crashes in Kurunegala
Ground broken on Joint Malaysia-Australia infrastructure upgrade at RMAF Butterworth
Posted on March 21, 2025March 21, 2025 by alert5
A new chapter in Malaysian-Australian defence collaboration has begun with a ground-breaking ceremony on Mar. 20 at RMAF Butterworth.  The ceremony signified the commencement of the Malaysia – Australia Infrastructure Airfield Works Project (Stage 1). This joint initiative underscores the strong bilateral defence relationship between the two nations, which is underpinned by Australia’s Australian Defence Force (ADF) presence at Butterworth, shared engagement under the Five Power Defence Arrangements, and defence cooperation activities, also known as the Malaysia-Australia Joint Defence Program (MAJDP).
Photo: RMAF
Continue reading “Ground broken on Joint Malaysia-Australia infrastructure upgrade at RMAF Butterworth”
Posted in Air ForceLeave a Comment on Ground broken on Joint Malaysia-Australia infrastructure upgrade at RMAF Butterworth
F-35 Training Centre cost surges to $1.2 Billion at Fort Smith
Posted on March 21, 2025 by alert5
Fort Smith’s burgeoning role in global F-35 fighter pilot training has taken on sharper definition, with the price tag for the training centre now estimated at $1.2 billion, a notable climb from earlier projections of around $800 million. This development at Ebbing Air National Guard Base was brought into focus during a recent meeting of the Fort Smith Regional Airport Commission, where the scope and timeline of the ambitious project were further detailed.
The 33rd Fighter Wing and Ebbing Air National Guard Base welcomed the arrival of the first two Polish Air Force F-35A Lightning IIaircraft at Ebbing Air National Guard Base, Fort SMith, Arkansas on December 23, 2024. This marks a significant milestone in the Foreign Military Sales training program and highlights the strong partnership between the U.S. and Poland. The aircraft’s arrival will kickstart Polish pilot training at Ebbing ANGB, beginning in January 2025. (U.S. Air National Guard photo by A1C Miles Chrisman)
Continue reading “F-35 Training Centre cost surges to $1.2 Billion at Fort Smith”
Posted in Air ForceLeave a Comment on F-35 Training Centre cost surges to $1.2 Billion at Fort Smith
Posts pagination
1
2
3
…
5,534
Next
CategoriesCategories
Select Category
Air Defense
Air Force
Airshow
Army
Boeing
Heritage
Industry
KC-X
Marines
MMRCA
MQ-X
Navy
PAK-FA
Research
Space
Trivial
UAV
Uncategorized
WordPress Theme: Blog Guten by TwoPoints.