Diane Bourgeois | openparliament.ca
MPs
Bills
Debates
Committees
About
Labs
search
menu
Search
Home
MPs Former Québec Diane Bourgeois
Diane Bourgeois
House of Commons photo
Crucial Fact
Her favourite word was quebec.
Last in Parliament March 2011, as Bloc MP for Terrebonne—Blainville (Québec)
Lost her last election, in 2015, with 23% of the vote.
Statements in the House
Previous123456785556Next
Petitions March 25th, 2011
Madam Speaker, I am presenting a petition that follows the hundreds already presented by the Bloc Québécois on behalf of the people of Quebec regarding copyright. The petitioners call upon legislators to review Bill C-32, to bring it back to the spirit of the Copyright Act and to restore artists' legitimate rights.
Links & Sharing
Jean-Luc Labrecque March 22nd, 2011
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Jean-Luc Labrecque, a city councillor in Terrebonne and the president of the Association québécoise du transport intermunicipal et municipal. For over 20 years, Mr. Labrecque has been devoting himself to promoting sustainable development and the use of public transit.
Mr. Labrecque's exemplary commitment has been recognized by Transport 2000 Québec, which awarded him the Guy Chartrand prize in the “outstanding individual in public transit” category. Created in 2005, this honour recognizes the achievements and contribution of individuals who play a role in the creation and implementation of a sustainable transportation policy for Quebec.
On behalf of my Bloc Québécois colleagues, I wish to congratulate Mr. Labrecque and thank him for his commitment to our community. We are privileged to be able to count on someone of his stature and we appreciate his efforts to move the Quebec nation towards a greener future.
Links & Sharing
Enhanced New Veterans Charter Act March 11th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, first I want to congratulate the minister. It is not often that we congratulate ministers.
He has answered some of the questions from our veterans. I have spoken with a number of veterans in my riding and there are still a number of other questions I would like the minister to answer.
I have no problem with adjusting the compensation amounts and the amounts to which people with psychological or social problems are entitled. Nevertheless, we know that our veterans are increasingly younger. A clause has been included whereby the sums will be indexed over time. The cost of living never stops increasing and veterans are a bit concerned about that. The sums are adequate for now, but will they be indexed in 5 or 10 years?
Until now, World War II veterans have received services from health care facilities. Modern-day veterans want to know whether those services will be maintained. Will health care institutions be provided for them? Will widows and wives of those who are no longer independent also have access to the services?
Links & Sharing
Business of Supply March 10th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, the parliamentary secretary said that the government had created 400,000 jobs with its recovery plan, while the Parliamentary Budget Officer said that the government had protected 135,000 jobs. That is not the same thing.
Links & Sharing
Former Public Sector Integrity Commissioner March 9th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, the Standing Committee on Government Operations and Estimates has learned more about how former public sector integrity commissioner Christiane Ouimet was hired, about her shoddy work and about the golden parachute she was given.
First, the Conservative government outright rejected 12 candidates for the position in favour of someone with ties to the Privy Council Office. By proceeding in this way, the government simply carried on the Liberal tradition of hiring close friends while ensuring that the commissioner would not get the Conservatives into trouble.
When she was hired in 2007, Ms. Ouimet was well aware of her mandate under the Public Servants Disclosure Protection Act. But once she became the commissioner, she also became the government's puppet and abandoned more than 200 public servants who had filed complaints and were waiting for justice.
Finally, the $500,000 golden parachute is nothing more than a Conservative government thank you to Ms. Ouimet for her sabotage.
Links & Sharing
Marie-Andrée Bertrand March 8th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, on March 6, we lost one of our pioneering feminists and criminologists, Marie-Andrée Bertrand.
She was the first female Quebecker—the first woman, actually—to earn a Ph.D. in criminology from the University of California's Berkeley campus. A leader of the anti-prohibition movement, she did not believe that criminal legislation was the way to fight illegal substance abuse. She believed in reconciling the confusion between harm reduction and drug prohibition policies.
Her work and research on women and criminal law and her critiques on gender, class and ethnic inequality were well written.
She fought and remained active to the end, and in 2007 she said that a retired feminist cannot easily relax and does not want to.
The Bloc Québécois pays tribute to this woman who was both ahead of her time and inspirational. We offer our deepest sympathies to her family and loved ones.
Links & Sharing
Political Financing March 4th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, Senator Doug Finley, the Prime Minister's henchman during the last two elections, the very one who orchestrated the scam to get around campaign financing limits, broke his silence this week to try to protect the Prime Minister. He would have us believe that the Prime Minister, a known control freak, was not aware of this electoral scam.
Do the chief organizer's comments not prove that the Conservatives know they are in hot water and are now trying to protect their Prime Minister?
Links & Sharing
Political Financing March 4th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, two former Conservative MPs have said they refused to participate in the party's fraudulent scheme during the 2005-06 election campaign. They suspected that it was an illegal scam meant to circumvent the Canada Elections Act and the spending limits.
How can the Prime Minister continue to claim that this a simple administrative dispute, when the Chief Electoral Officer, the elections commissioner, the director of public prosecutions and former Conservative candidates and MPs all maintain that the party deliberately—
Links & Sharing
Petitions February 18th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, I am presenting a petition with 120 signatures, which calls on the federal government not to make cuts in the renovation budget for low income housing.
In Quebec, 544 housing offices produced a health impact assessment proving that major renovations to low income housing are needed. The federal government is responsible in part for this situation because it did not invest enough in the maintenance and renovation of low income housing built in Quebec starting in the early 1970s.
In Quebec, 65,000 families live in low income housing. This work will protect the sustainability of housing stock worth more than $7 billion. The Société d'habitation du Québec needs this funding, which the federal government considers to be adequate.
That is why 120 people are asking the Government of Canada to make the required public investment enabling Société d'habitation du Québec to complete its renovation plan for low income housing, which includes covering an accumulated maintenance deficit.
Links & Sharing
Sarto Dupéré February 18th, 2011
Mr. Speaker, I would like to pay tribute to a committed volunteer in my riding, Sarto Dupéré, who very much deserves the honour bestowed on him by the city of Blainville: the city's Order of Merit.
His volunteer career began with the scouting movement in Blainville in 1968. He has also been involved in the figure skating club, the Optimist Club, the Conseil régional des loisirs des Laurentides, the Camp quatre saisons and the Air Cadet sponsoring committee. He helped create the Fondation le Sentier de l'Entraide, whose mission is to provide last resort assistance to the most vulnerable individuals and families in Thérèse-De-Blainville. In more recent years, he helped establish the Centre 50+.
At 82, Mr. Dupéré remains young at heart and continues improving the lives of his fellow citizens through his commitment and his advice.
Congratulations, Mr. Dupéré, on this wonderful honour. You have earned our utmost respect.
Links & Sharing
Previous123456785556Next
CopyCopied
Share on Twitter or Facebook
Go to Parliament’s site: transcript or video.
supported by
This is not a government site. Not even sort of.News articles via Google News.
Words
Debates (Hansard)
Committees
Search
Alerts
Laws
Bills
Votes
More
Feedback / Contact
Haiku
Developers (JSON)