UNFORTUNATELY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster
Menu Toggle
Merriam-Webster Logo
Games
Word of the Day
Grammar
Wordplay
New
Slang
Rhymes
Word Finder
Thesaurus
Join MWU
More
Games
Word of the Day
Grammar
Wordplay
Slang
Rhymes
Word Finder
Thesaurus
Join MWU
Shop
Books
Merch
Log In
Username
My Words
Recents
Account
Log Out
Est. 1828
Dictionary
Definition
Definition
Example Sentences
Word History
Rhymes
Entries Near
Cite this EntryCitation
Share
More from M-W
Show more
Show more
Citation
Share
More from M-W
Save Word
To save this word, you'll need to log in.
Log In
unfortunately
adverb
un·​for·​tu·​nate·​ly
ˌən-ˈfȯrch-nət-lē,
-ˈfȯr-chə-
Synonyms of unfortunately
1
: it is unfortunate
Unfortunately, in the intervening years, time has not stood still for the global environment.—Al Gore A young man can work at excessive speed with no ill effects, but youth is unfortunately not a permanent condition of life.—F. Scott Fitzgerald
2
: in a regrettable, unlucky, or unsuitable manner : in an unfortunate manner
"Have you an agreeable neighbourhood here? Are the Middletons pleasant people?" "No, not all," answered Marianne; "we could not be more unfortunately situated."—Jane Austen The past couple years have ended unfortunately for us, and we're using it as motivation.—James Moyers
Examples of unfortunately in a Sentence
Our awards program evaluates wine lists, not restaurants as a whole. While we assume the level of food and service will be commensurate with the quality of the wine lists submitted by award winners, this unfortunately is not always true.
—Wine Spectator,                31 Aug. 2008
Coral reefs provide essential goods and services to maritime tropical nations and are the most diverse marine ecosystems on the planet. Unfortunately, reefs are seriously declining because of global warming.
—Andrea G. Grottoli et al.,                Nature,                27 Apr. 2006
There are many books announcing a global economic transformation and suggesting that governments can be reengineered to adapt to it in much the same way as corporations.  … Unfortunately the problems of globalization are more intractable than those of corporate life. States cannot be phased out like bankrupt firms, and large shifts in wealth and power tend to be fiercely contested.
—John Gray,                New York Review of Books,                11 Aug. 2005
Doctors have long believed that children experience pain differently than adults. Unfortunately, most doctors thought kids felt pain less than grownups do, and didn't retain memory of it. As late as the 1970s, infants underwent major surgery without anesthetics.  … This barbaric notion was finally put to rest in the 1980s …
—Michael D. Lemonick,                Time,                28 Feb. 2005
In the aftermath of the Revolution, Americans desperately needed some non-British heroes. Columbus filled the bill even though no one knew much about him until novelist Washington Irving visited Spain, found a rich lode of source materials and produced a widely read biography. Unfortunately, Irving mixed fiction with fact, and one of his most graphic scenes, set in Salamanca, was wildly imaginative.
—Owen Gingerich,                Scientific American,                November 1992
Recent Examples on the Web
Examples are automatically compiled from online sources to
show current usage.
Read More
Opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors.
Send us feedback.
But unfortunately, this isn't helping you—or your pans—out in the long run.
—Katlyn Moncada, Better Homes & Gardens, 19 Mar. 2025
But unfortunately nearly half of the private colleges and universities in America are C students, at best, financially.
—Danielle Chemtob, Forbes, 7 Mar. 2025
Now, unfortunately, cooler heads seem to be prevailing.
—William Walldorf, TIME, 7 Mar. 2025
The same unfortunately cannot be said for Grosse Pointe Garden Society as a whole.
—Angie Han, The Hollywood Reporter, 23 Feb. 2025
See All Example Sentences for unfortunately
Word History
First Known Use
circa 1548, in the meaning defined at sense 2
Time Traveler
The first known use of unfortunately was
circa 1548
See more words from the same year
Rhymes for unfortunately
fortunately
See All Rhymes for unfortunately
Browse Nearby Words
unfortunate
unfortunately
unfortunateness
See all Nearby Words
Cite this Entry
Style
MLA
Chicago
APA
Merriam-Webster
“Unfortunately.” Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/unfortunately. Accessed 25 Mar. 2025.
Copy Citation
Share
More from Merriam-Webster on unfortunately
Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for unfortunately
Nglish: Translation of unfortunately for Spanish Speakers
Last Updated:
22 Mar 2025
- Updated example sentences
Love words? Need even more definitions?
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
Merriam-Webster unabridged
More from Merriam-Webster
Can you solve 4 words at once?
Play
Play
Can you solve 4 words at once?
Play
Play
Word of the Day
hobbit
See Definitions and Examples »
Get Word of the Day daily email!
Popular in Grammar & Usage
See More
How to Use Em Dashes (—), En Dashes (–) , and Hyphens (-)
The Difference Between 'i.e.' and 'e.g.'
Why is '-ed' sometimes pronounced at the end of a word?
Words You Always Have to Look Up
Democracy or Republic: What's the difference?
See More
Popular in Wordplay
See More
Top 10 Sophisticated Insults
Flower Etymologies For Your Spring Garden
More Words with Remarkable Origins
Terroir, Oenophile, & Magnum: Ten Words About Wine
8 Words for Lesser-Known Musical Instruments
See More
Popular Features
See More
How to Use Em Dashes (—), En Dashes (–) , and Hyphens (-)
Top 10 Sophisticated Insults
Flower Etymologies For Your Spring Garden
See More
Games & Quizzes
See All
Quordle
Can you solve 4 words at once?
Play
Blossom Word Game
Pick the best words!
Play
Missing Letter
A daily crossword with a twist
Play
Rhyme Disguise Quiz
Pair up words that look different but sound alike.
Take the quiz
See All
Merriam Webster
Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox!
Help
About Us
Advertising Info
Contact Us
Diversity
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
© 2025 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated