Edgar James Maybery, E J Maybery, painter etcher, oil and watercolour artist, Mayberry, Maybury
Caerleon
and      Art
Index Page
Wilfred Wilson
Joseph Hennah
Edgar Maybery
Simon Moore
David Day
Caerleon Arts Festival
Art in our Archive
Other Pages
Home
Search
Site Index
Local Information
History Index
Archive Index
About the Artist His Paintings His Etchings (signed Maybery) His Etchings (signed Simes)
Edgar
James Maybery
1887
- 1964
oil
and watercolour artist, etcher
Edgar
Maybery was born in Newport in 1887. His father, Francis, was a bootmaker
and kept a shop at 154 Commercial Road Newport. His mother, Julia (nee
Marshall), was Francis' second wife and twenty years younger than her
husband. By the time Edgar was 13 years of age his father was sixty.
Edgar
studied art from a young age and at sixteen was exhibiting his work.
His studies were completed in London at the South Kensington School,
and by his mid thirties he was a member of the Royal Cambrian Society
and the Royal West of England Academy.
During
the First World War Edgar served in the Royal Welsh Fusiliers where
he spent much of his spare time sketching. It would be most interesting
to see some of his works from this time. After his time in service,
as a batman or orderly, he returned to Newport.
Caerleon was a short bus ride away from his home town, Newport, and
he was often to be seen there painting views such as the square, the
bridge and river, and the Hanbury Arms - mostly watercolours. He didn't
restrict his travels to South Wales and the West of England, as his
watercolours and oil paintings of many parts of the country testify.
He
is probably best known, though, for his etchings - usually detailed
views of buildings.
It
would seem Edgar worked under other names including Miller, Stanton and Simes.
This may have been for contractual reasons. We have included some paintings
bearing the signatures Miller and Stanton, and attributed to Maybery, in our 'online gallery'. Also, we have a separate section for etchings bearing the signature 'A Simes'. There are very strong grounds for believing these were actually the handiwork of Edgar Maybery.
We
are currently trying to find out more about Edgar Maybery and would
be pleased to hear from you if you can add to the above information,
have any of his works not listed here or a picture of the artist. Please
contact us by following the link at the foot of the page.
Alan Whitmore has kindly got in touch with us to tell us about the fortnight he spent helping Edgar Maybery in his studio as a twelve year old in the early 1950s. You can read his memories by following this link.
View Maybery's Paintings and Etchings
Paintings and Sketches      Etchings
Note: Copyright exists in all images displayed here.
Permission must be sought before any  images and texts on this website are reproduced in any form,
and full acknowledgement will be required.
Top of Page
disclaimer   privacy   copyright   contact
us