Dance-Tech List Archive: 2001: Dance History Reader
Dance History Reader
From: Ann Dils (ahdils@uncg.edu)
Date: 03/15/01
Next message: sugarcat: "anybody knows hologram+dance(theatre)?"
Previous message: Scott deLahunta: "emare residencies"
Messages sorted by:
[ date ]
[ thread ]
[ subject ]
[ author ]
Mail actions: [ respond to this message ] [ mail a new topic ]
AVAILABLE FOR YOUR FALL COURSES!!!
A Dance History Reader
MOVING HISTORY / DANCING CULTURES
Edited by Ann Dils and Ann Cooper Albright
"Unparalleled in its diversity of material, approaches and ideas.
Nowhere
else can a dance educator find a selection of readings of this
magnitude in
any single format. An extremely important, urgently  needed shift in
the
current accessibility of dance history  scholarship." -Candace Feck,
Department of Dance, Ohio State
University
"This reader will fill a widely recognized gap in the teaching
material
available to dance history instructors." -Tricia Henry  Young,
Department of
Dance, Florida State University
544 pp. 55 illus. 8 x 10. Paper, 0-8195-6413-3. $24.95  Available July 1
To  ORDER: Please contact your local bookstore or Wesleyan University
Press,
c/o University Press of New England, Order Department, 23  South Main
Street, Hanover, NH 03755 Toll-Free: 1-800-421-1561  FAX: 603-643-1540
E-mail:
University.Press@Dartmouth.edu   Individuals must prepay and include
postage: $5.00 for first book, $1.25 for each additional book.
MOVING HISTORY
DANCING CULTURES
A Dance History Reader
CONTENTS
Ann Dils and Ann Cooper Albright, First Steps: Moving into the Study of
Dance
History
Section 1 - Thinking About Dance History: Theory and Practices
Deborah Jowitt, Writing Beneath the Surface
Joan Acocella, Imagining Dance
Millicent Hodson, Searching for Nijinsky's Sacre
Deidre Sklar, Five Premises for a Culturally Sensitive Approach to Dance
Joann Kealiinohomoku, An Anthropologist Looks at Ballet as a Form of
Ethnic
Dance
Ramsay Burt, The Trouble with the Male Dancer
Ann Cooper Albright, Strategic Abilities: Negotiating the Disabled Body
in
Dance
Sally Ann Ness, Dancing in the Field: Notes from Memory
Section 2 - World Dance Traditions
Erika Bourgignon, Trance and Ecstatic Dance
Avanthi Meduri, Bharatha Natyam - What Are You?
Lisa Doolittle & Heather Elton, Medicine of the Brave
Shawna Helland, The Belly Dance: Ancient Ritual to Cabaret Performance
Karin van Nieuwkerk, Changing Images and Shifting Identities: Female
Performers in   Egypt
Kariamu Welsh Asante, Commonalities in African Dance:  An Aesthetic
Foundation
Z. S. Strother, Invention and Re-invention in the Traditional Arts
Barbara Browning, Headspin: Capoeira's Ironic Inversions
Lee Kyong-hee, Epitome of Korean Folk Dance
Judy Van Zile, The Many Faces of Korean Dance
Mark Franko, Writing Dancing
Catherine Turocy, Beyond La Danse Noble: Conventions in Choreography
and
Dance   Performance at the Time of Rameau's Hippolyte et Aricie
Lynn Garafola, The Travesty Dancer in Nineteenth- Century Ballet
Susan Allene Manning & Melissa Benson, Interrupted Continuities: Modern
Dance
in  Germany
Section 3 - America Dancing
Sharyn R. Udall, The Irresistible Other: Hopi  Ritual  Drama and
Euro-American   Audiences
Marian Hannah Winter, Juba and American Minstrelsy
Jane Desmond, Dancing Out the Difference:  Cultural Imperialism and
Ruth St.
Denis's     Radha of 1906
Julie Malnig, Two-Stepping to Glory
Ann Daly, The Natural Body
Deborah Jowitt, Form as the Image of Human  Perfectibility and Natural
Order
Marcia B. Siegel, The Harsh and Splendid Heroines of  Martha Graham
Ellen Graff, The Dance is a Weapon
Nancy Reynolds, In His Image: Diaghilev and Lincoln Kirstein
Brenda Dixon Gottschild, Stripping the Emperor: The Africanist Presence
in
American    Concert Dance
Thomas DeFrantz, Simmering Passivity: The Black Male Body in Concert
Dance
Sally Banes, Choreographic Methods of the Judson Dance Theater
Deborah Jowitt, Chance Heroes. Merce Cunningham
Section 4 - Contemporary Dance: Global Contexts
Cynthia Jean Cohen Bull, Looking at Movement as Culture
Peter Ryan, 10,000 Jams Later: Contact Improvisation in Canada 1974-95
Bonnie Sue Stein, Butoh: "Twenty Years Ago We Were Crazy, Dirty and Mad"
Steve Paxton, Improvisation Is a Word for Something That Can't Keep a
Name
Kathleen Foreman, Dancing on the Endangered List: Aesthetics and
Politics of
Indigenous Dance in the Philippines
Ananya Chatterjea, Chandralekha: Negotiating the Female Body and
Movement in
Cultural/ Political Signification
Uttara Coorlawala, Ananya and Chandralekha - A Response
Ann Cooper Albright, Embodying History: Epic Narrative and Cultural
Identity
in  African-American Dance
Susan Foster, Simply (?) the Doing of it, Like Two Arms Going Round and
Round
Richard Povall, A Little Technology Is a Dangerous Thing
Lisa Marie Naugle, Technique/ Technology/ Technique
Ann Dils, Absent/Presence
Next message: sugarcat: "anybody knows hologram+dance(theatre)?"
Previous message: Scott deLahunta: "emare residencies"
Messages sorted by:
[ date ]
[ thread ]
[ subject ]
[ author ]
Mail actions: [ respond to this message ] [ mail a new topic ]
This archive was generated by hypermail 2b30
: 01/24/02