Duffield, VA - Natural Tunnel State Park
Skip to Main Content
RoadsideAmerica.comYour Online Guide to Offbeat Tourist Attractions
Navigation
×
Home
Maps
Tips
Blog
My Sights
Video
Mobile
×
Attraction:
Town:
State
AK
AL
AR
AZ
CA
CO
CT
DC
DE
FL
GA
HI
ID
IL
IN
IA
KS
KY
LA
ME
MD
MA
MI
MN
MS
MO
MT
NE
NV
NH
NJ
NM
NY
NC
ND
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VT
VA
WA
WV
WI
WY
AB
BC
MB
NB
NF
NT
NS
ON
PQ
PE
SK
YT
Mex.
Other
Duffield, Virginia: Natural Tunnel State ParkRide a chairlift down to a formidable natural hole, 850 feet long, with a roof ten stories high. Trains still run through the hole. View any time. Open to pedestrians the third Saturday in July.
Natural Tunnel State Park
Address:1420 Natural Tunnel Parkway, Duffield, VADirections:Natural Tunnel State Park. 20 miles north of Kingsport. From I-81, take U.S. 23 north to Gate City. The turn-off to the park is at mile marker 17.4. Take Natural Tunnel Parkway/State Rt. 871 about one mile east to entrance. Park, then hike the trail to the hole.
Hours:Daily 8-6. Gated after hours. (Call to verify)
Phone:276-940-2674
Save to My Sights
Results 1 to 4 of 4...Visitor Tips and News About Natural Tunnel State ParkReports and tips from RoadsideAmerica.com visitors and Roadside America mobile tipsters. Some tips may not be verified. Submit your own tip.
Natural Tunnel State Park Very easy hike (and I'm not an experienced hiker at all). Really glad I had time to kill and saw the sign. [Jennifer, 04/28/2022]
Natural Tunnel State Park I used to live about 45 minutes away from Natural Tunnel. If you are looking for places to stop for the night, the campground is very nice, has some of the cleanest bathrooms/showers I've ever seen at state campgrounds, accommodates both tent and RV campers, and includes passes to the on-site swimming pool (with decent slides for the young and young at heart). There are also hiking trails. For those less inclined to hike down the steep but relatively short trail to the natural tunnel, there's a lift. You can pay a little for one round trip or about twice that for an all-day pass(It's fun enough to pass as an amusement park ride for many kids). [Mike Bodary, 06/23/2017]
Natural Tunnel State Park The railroad is still operational. I was fortunate to see a train pass through the natural tunnel at my visit. [Chris Collins, 09/25/2013]
Natural Tunnel State Park Natural Tunnel, was called the Eighth Wonder of the World by William Jennings Bryan, and today is the focal point of Natural Tunnel State Park. The million year old tunnel was created as groundwater ate through limestone and dolomite via crevices, and later as a creek diverted underground and carved the large passage. [Nathan E. Jessee, 11/23/2009]You can't walk through the tunnel -- trains run through it -- but the Park has an overlook where you can admire this formidable water-eaten hole. Sept. 2013: Photo added.
Nearby Offbeat PlacesDaniel Boone Cabin, Kingsport, TN - 13 mi.
Muffler Man Holding a Hamburger, Kingsport, TN - 13 mi.
Giant Hand: Molecule Master, Kingsport, TN - 16 mi.
In the region: Muffler Man - Paul Bunyan, Coeburn, VA - 22 mi.
Latest Tips Across Roadside America
Catch up on the latest discoveries from the road.
Explore Thousands of Oddball Tourist Attractions!
Unique destinations in the U.S. and Canada are our special obsession. Use our attraction recommendation and maps to plan your next road trip.
My Sights
Create Your Own Bizarre Road Trips! ...Try My Sights
Mobile Apps
Roadside America app for iPhone, iPad. On-route maps, 1,000s of photos, special research targets! ...More
Roadside Presidents app for iPhone, iPad. POTUS landmarks, oddities. ...More
Virginia Latest Tips and Stories
Possum-bilities, Fredericksburg, Virginia
Virginia's Brunswick Stew Marker, Freeman, Virginia
Slave Auction Block, Fredericksburg, Virginia
Fort Chiswell Animal Park, Max Meadows, Virginia
Big Walker Lookout: Climb the Tower, Wytheville, Virginia
Latest Visitor Tips
Sight of the Week
National Museum of Transportation, St. Louis, Missouri (Mar 24-30, 2025)
SotW Archive
USA and Canada Tips and Stories
Feature: National Museum of Transportation, St. Louis, Missouri
Santa's Village Azoosment Park, East Dundee, Illinois
Muffler Man and Giant Longhorn, Waukon, Iowa
Automatic for the People Diner, Athens, Georgia
Replica of Michelangelo's David, St. Augustine, Florida
More Sightings
Miscellaneous
About Us
Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Trip Planning Caution: RoadsideAmerica.com offers maps, directions and attraction details as a convenience, providing all information as is. Attraction status, hours and prices change without notice; call ahead!
Credits, Media/Business Inquiries
© Copyright 1996-2025 Doug Kirby, Ken Smith, Mike Wilkins. All rights reserved. No portion of this document may be reproduced, copied or revised without written permission of the authors.