Poply - Create free online invitations - send with text & email
Poply
Login
Sign Up
Change Your Template
Change Your Template
Customize
Open Menu
Poply
Close Menu
Create
Create an Invitation
Explore Event Types
Learn
How to Host a Virtual Party
Create online invitations & more with the Poply app
Stunning online invitations — send by text & email
Create custom invites with photos and videos, manage RSVPs, & message guests.
Fresh Seasonal Colors + Your Personal Photos =
The perfect online invitation
Take your event to the next level
Elevate your invite with our powerful features
Beautiful Full-screen Invitations
Designed to look good on the web, phones and tablets.
Customize with Photos and Videos
Upload your own photos and videos or select from our free, pro galleries.
Send Invitations via Email or Text
Choose your guests and we’ll send the invitation for you.
Robust RSVP Management Tools
See who has responded, added plus-ones and opened invites.
Invitation templates for every event
We’ve got you covered with our stylish collection of designs for any occasion.
Browse Templates
Make it yours with photos & videos
Take it to the next level by customizing with your photos and videos or selecting from our free, curated galleries.
Full-screen and amaaazing!
Don’t settle for boring invitations. All of our templates are full-screen, interactive, and put your guests into the experience.
1
2
3
Scroll over the invitation for the full experience!
Immersive InvitationModern InvitationClassic Invitation
Private Messaging
In app tools for private messaging between host, guests or the group.
Easy Contact Import
Import your address book with our easy-to-use tools.
Smart-match Contacts
We match up relationships so you never forget a spouse, partner, kids or a friend.
Flexible Date Options
Save-the-date, all-day and multi-day event settings.
The best invitation app on the market!
It was a very seamless, intuitive process. Made planning my event, gathering RSVPs, and sending messages to guests super easy…. I also loved the ability to customize with my own images.
- TinaL
Wow! Hello, Poply(goodbye Paperless Post)
I feel like I could be an event organizer with this app. Contact import and management is your strong point. The interface is simple yet powerful.
- BusyB3
Wedding Event
Thank you for providing such a seamless event organization experience! Our guests were impressed by how easy it was to confirm their attendance through the guest list updates, and they particularly loved the sleek and professional appearance of the event details.
- 4 VIP
Excellent invitation app!
I especially like the ability to invite guests via SMS text messages. A lot of younger people in my family don’t use email, but they will RSVP to invitations made with this app.
- ZC
Tried many before finding Poply
Poply was so simple to use, reliable, and looked great. … It was one less thing for me to stress over when planning a huge party!
- clk
Great app!
I had a beautiful invite completed and sent within 5 minutes! Thanks Poply!
- Geast67
Easy to use
I’m not I.T. savvy but this app was easy to use. It was easy for my friends to RSVP. The invitation was very attractive. I will certainly use it for all my events!
- cml125rn
My friends were all wowed
Super easy to use and very efficient. My friends were all wowed by how cute the invite was and I couldn’t have been happier with how simple it made getting the info out. I also liked that it can go out via text so you don’t even have to track down email addresses.
- Paula
Frequently Asked Questions
Some of my guests don’t use email. Can I send my Poply invitation using text messages?
Yes! You have the freedom to choose the delivery method that works best for each guest. When it’s time to add guests to your Poply invite you can choose to send the invitation to their mobile number or email address. (We even provide tools to quickly import from the address book on your phone!) Once you send the invite we take care of the texting (or emailing) for you.
To learn more about sending invitations with text messages visit our FAQ.
Can I add my own photos or videos to my invitation?
Absolutely! This is one of Poply’s coolest features. (If we do say so ourselves…) You can customize any invitation we offer with your photos or videos — or both! Maybe you’d like to upload a photo of the birthday boy for his 30th bash or a video of waves on the beach to set the proper atmosphere for your luau? Make your invite truly unique when you customize it with your own images.
To learn more about adding photos to your invitations visit our FAQ.
What if I don’t see a template for the type of event I’m hosting?
Poply has plenty of pre-made designer invites for many different types of events, but if you don’t find one to match your type of gathering you can easily customize the photos on any of our templates to match the theme of your event perfectly. You can do this by uploading your own photos or videos, or you can select from our gallery of thousands of professional photos/videos.
To learn more about adding photos to your invitations visit our FAQ.
How can I notify my guests with important information about my event?
Poply includes a messaging tool that can be used to send updates and additional reminders about your event to your guests. You can choose to send group messages to everyone invited, guests who are attending or guests who have not replied. You can also send private messages to individual guests. If you make a change to your event after you’ve sent invitations to your guests, we’ll prompt you to send a group message to let them know.
To learn more about in-app messaging visit our FAQ.
View All FAQ
Poply Premium
Unlock more features with premium!
$0
Bronze
One event
$29.95
Silver
One event
$49.95
Gold
One event
$99/Year
Pro
Unlimited events
Invite guests via text or email
Up to 12 guests
Up to 30 guests
Up to 150 guests
Up to 2500 guests
3-day free trial
Sharable link for social media
Custom QR Code
Ad-free
Choose a designer color theme
Customize with your photos & videos
Customize with a curated gallery of photos & videos
Manage & track RSVPs
Message guests
Get Started
Get Started
Get Started
Get Started
Popular Event Types
See a Preview
Big Bash Birthday
Modern Invitation
Adult Birthday
Customize
See a Preview
Welcome Baby Party
Classic Invitation
Baby Shower
Customize
See a Preview
Child’s Virtual Birthday
Immersive Invitation
Kid's Birthday
Customize
No Events Right Now?
Input the date of your next big event and we’ll send you a reminder to create a Poply invite.
We created Poply to reinvent online invitations
Most invitation websites recreate paper invitations on the computer screen with static text and images of envelopes on a web page. We knew there was a better way, so we set out to create invitations that use the host of technologies available today. Our full-screen, interactive invitations with beautiful videos and photos immerse guests in the mood of the event they’ve been invited to.
Free
Free options for hosts. Guests are never charged!
Safe and Secure
Our top-notch security practices protect your private information.
Ad-free
An ad-free experience allows you to focus on the content that matters.
Customer Support
A dedicated customer support team to help with your questions.
Your Tech Choice
All features available on the Web, iOS and Android. Switch seamlessly between platforms.
Easy Login
Login with your email, Google or Apple account.
Let’s get this party started
Take your events to the next level with Poply! Beautiful, custom invitations, combined with helpful features, puts you in control.
Download Android
Download iOS
Create an Invitation
Copyright 2025
Blog
Privacy Policy
Opt In
Contact
FAQ
Powered by Zuno
Poply on Facebook
Poply on Instagram