OPEIU
|
Local Union Login
Home+About UsOur HistoryMission StatementOur National LeadersMembers in ActionFind a Local Union or GuildWho We AreContact Us+Member Resources+Union ResourcesOPEIU Connect: OPEIU's Official MagazineOPEIU Justice for AllAFL-CIO Action CenterFrequently Asked QuestionsWelcome to OPEIU BrochureOur Union CommunityCyber Security – What You Can DoBulletin BoardOPEIU Store+Union BenefitsUnions Make a DifferenceOPEIU Membership BenefitsUnion ScholarshipsUnion PlusUnion Member RightsOPEIU National Retirement Savings Plan (401k) Educational Webinars+OPEIU Links29th OPEIU Convention28th OPEIU Convention27th OPEIU Convention26th OPEIU Convention25th OPEIU ConventionOur Union CommunityLocal Union Resources+Need A Union?Need a Union?Unions Make A DifferenceWhy a Union with OPEIU?What Will My Employer Say?What Are My Legal Rights?Frequently Asked QuestionsJoin / Contact UsMedia Center
|
Local Union Login
Home
About Us
Our History
Mission Statement
Our National Leaders
Members in Action
Find a Local Union or Guild
Who We Are
Contact Us
Member Resources
Union Resources
OPEIU Connect: OPEIU's Official Magazine
OPEIU Justice for All
AFL-CIO Action Center
Frequently Asked Questions
Welcome to OPEIU Brochure
Our Union Community
Cyber Security – What You Can Do
Bulletin Board
OPEIU Store
Union Benefits
Unions Make a Difference
OPEIU Membership Benefits
Union Scholarships
Union Plus
Union Member Rights
OPEIU National Retirement Savings Plan (401k) Educational Webinars
OPEIU Links
29th OPEIU Convention
28th OPEIU Convention
27th OPEIU Convention
26th OPEIU Convention
25th OPEIU Convention
Our Union Community
Local Union Resources
Need A Union?
Need a Union?
Unions Make A Difference
Why a Union with OPEIU?
What Will My Employer Say?
What Are My Legal Rights?
Frequently Asked Questions
Join / Contact Us
Media Center
×
Download the OPEIU App
The OPEIU app is available for free download for iOS devices on the App Store and for Android devices on Google Play by searching OPEIU.
Android Version
iOS Version
Welcome to the Office and Professional Employees International Union
The Office and Professional Employees International Union was chartered in 1945 and, with more than 90,000 members, we’re one of the larger unions of the AFL-CIO.  OPEIU has locals throughout the United States and Canada. You are not alone when you join OPEIU.
Find a Local or Guild
Latest News
Budget SUV Rentals are on Sale for Union Members
14 March 2025
Rent Budget SUVs as low as $54/day.* Union Members – book this BIG deal to get a spacious and comfortable ride for less!
Plus, sign up for Budget Fastbreak booking, the free loyalty program that offers expedited service so you can skip the lines at pickup and drop-off.
Budget Fastbreak Link: https://www.budget.com/budgetWeb/profile/fastbreak.ex?BCD=V816142
Book Now & Save
Disclaimer:
*Terms apply. Sale ends 4/9/25.
Read more
Switch and save on AT&T wireless plans!
3 March 2025
Save money every month on your phone bill!
Learn how union members like you can get monthly discounts on select wireless plans, eligible accessories, and more with AT&T Unlimited Premium ® PL*.
Switch & Save
Disclaimer:
*Exclusions and limitations apply. Visit unionplus.org/att for more details.
Read more
ASL Interpreters Union-OPEIU and Rep. Greg Casar Call for Accountability in Deaf Telecommunications at Press Conference at FCC
26 February 2025
(Washington, D.C., Feb. 26, 2025) – Today, Representative Greg Casar (D-TX), interpreter members of the ASL Interpreters Union-OPEIU and allies spoke in front of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to address the significant decline of service quality in Video Relay Service (VRS), an essential service ensuring the Deaf, Hard-of-Hearing and Deaf-Blind communities have functionally equivalent service under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Working closely with VRS  interpreters, Rep. Casar sent a letter to the FCC urging the agency to act on its duty to regulate VRS. In response, Commissioner Anna Gomez has agreed to attend a first-of-its-kind public forum for VRS interpreters and Deaf users to share their stories directly with FCC officials.
“When unions organize and fight, and when these interpreters fight against the billionaires taking over your economy and your government, they’re not doing it just for themselves. They’re doing it for all of us,” Rep. Casar said at the press event. “Even though they may have all this money, we actually have power.”
Read more
ASL Interpreters Union-OPEIU to Hold Press Conference at FCC with Texas Congressman Greg Casar to Share Experiences with Video Relay Service
25 February 2025
**Members of the press are encouraged to attend**
Join Us
The ASL Interpreters Union-OPEIU is inviting allied organizations, labor unions, worker coalitions, Deaf community groups, students, elected officials and others to join this rare opportunity to hear from both VRS interpreters and Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing people who use VRS every day. Please gather with us outside the FCC at 8:45 a.m. ET on Wed., Feb. 26 and show support for interpreters and Deaf community members. We ask attendees to wear blue.
When
Wed., Feb. 26
9 a.m. ET
Where
In front of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
45 L St NE, Washington, DC 20554
RSVP: https://actionnetwork.org/events/asliu-press-conference?source=direct_link&
Read more
Student Success Sweepstakes
24 February 2025
Just a reminder our Student Success Sweepstakes begins next week. This year’s Student Success Sweepstakes will run from February 24 through March 10.Eligible union members and their families can enter by filling out an online entry form. One (1) grand prize winner will receive a ‘Student Success Kit’ consisting of a laptop ($1,500), earbuds ($250), and a school supply gift card ($200). One (1) first place winner will receive a $500 school supply gift card. One (1) second place winner will receive a $250 school supply gift card.Visit unionplus.org/studentsuccess.
Read more
Tyler Turner Named OPEIU President
Turner, president of Local 277 in Fort Worth, becomes president following the retirement of Richard Lanigan and will serve the unexpired term to June 2027
19 February 2025
New York, NY (Feb. 19, 2025) – The Office and Professional Employees International Union (OPEIU), AFL-CIO, CLC, Executive Board today named Tyler Turner to serve as president, following the retirement of Richard Lanigan. The appointment, effective immediately, was made at the executive board’s meeting in Las Vegas. Turner has served since 2017 as president of Local 277 in Fort Worth, Texas, and as an International vice president for Region IV since 2019. He will serve alongside OPEIU Secretary-Treasurer Mary Mahoney.
“I would like to thank the executive board for its decision to appoint me as president,” said Turner. “I am humbled by its faith in me, and am committed to serving the more than 90,000 OPEIU members and advocating for the rights and dignity of all working people across the country. I look forward to growing and strengthening our union through organizing and community activism.”
“The OPEIU Executive Board is confident Tyler Turner is the right choice to lead our union through the next challenging years as we face a hostile anti-worker administration,” the executive board said. “Tyler has the experience and vision needed to ensure OPEIU can weather these challenges, find new and innovative approaches to organizing in our industries and ultimately, work to ensure our members enjoy the dignity and respect they deserve in their workplaces.”
As the son of OPEIU Vice President Emerita and former Local 277 President and Business Manager, Becky Turner, Tyler Turner was introduced to labor activism at a young age. He began attending membership meetings at eight weeks old and quickly grew to realize that Local 277 members would be his lifelong family.
Upon going to work for Kaiser Permanente’s Consolidated Service Center in Fort Worth, Turner joined Local 277 in 2007. Soon after becoming a member, he realized his passion for labor activism and went to work directly for the local as support staff. He began his training by working side by side with Local 277 Business Representative Chuck Tyler, supporting members working for the City of Fort Worth and becoming active in the Tarrant County Central Labor Council.
In 2011, Turner was promoted to business representative for Local 277 and began representing members working for American Income Life Insurance Company across the United States and New Zealand. That same year, he was elected to the Tarrant County Central Labor Council Executive Board as a member at large where he served on various committees.
After serving on the bargaining committees with members working for Lockheed Martin, American Income Life, National Income Life and numerous other bargaining units, Turner was appointed to the Local 277 Executive Board as recording secretary. In 2013, he was promoted to senior business representative and elected as a District 8 vice president for the Texas AFL-CIO.
After his election as Local 277 president in 2017, Turner was elected the following year as a trustee for the Tarrant County Central Labor Council. He is a graduate of the University of Texas at Arlington with a BBA in finance.
Click here to read President Turner’s bio.
Read more
RSS
12345678910NextLast
prev next
Latest OPEIU Connect
Click to Download
Download the OPEIU App!
The OPEIU app is available for free download. It’s a great way to stay connected to your union, learn more about your membership benefits, find links to OPEIU’s social media networks and much more. Available for free download for iOS devices on the App Store and for Android devices on Google Play by searching OPEIU.
Join the OPEIU Member Action Team
OPEIU members take action every day to make our world a better place for all. That’s why we’ve created the OPEIU Member Action Team. We need members like you to call on for a rapid response to urgent situations impacting working people.  The future of our labor movement and OPEIU depends on leaders who are committed to organizing and to advocating for justice.
Will you join us? It takes just a few moments to sign up for the OPEIU Member Action Team here
Sign Up
Stay Connected! Join the OPEIU Retiree Action Team
Sign up to keep abreast of exciting OPEIU retiree benefits and important developments affecting you and your family.
Sign Up
Connect with Us
Your browser does not support inline frames. You may view the embedded docucument in a new browser window by clicking the following link: https://www.opeiu.org/signup.html
About Us
​The Office and Professional Employees International Union was chartered in 1945 and​, with more than ​90,000 members, we’re one of the larger unions of the AFL-CIO. OPEIU has locals ​throughout the United States and Canada.
More Information
Quick Links
Rising Stars
Membership Benefits
AT&T Benefits
Union-Made Vehicles
Latest OPEIU Connect
OPEIU Store
Retirees
Contact Us
President's Office
80 Eighth Avenue
(entrance at 265 West 14th Street)
Suite 201
New York, NY 10011
Phone:  (800) 346-7348 / (212)-675-3210
Contact Us
Need a Union at Your Workplace?
Copyright  2025 by OPEIU
|
Privacy Statement
|
Terms Of Use