Why GM Should Hire Alan Mulally | The Truth About Cars
Join Now
My History
Account Settings
Log out
News
Car Reviews
Editorials
Video
Product Reviews
Tips & Advice
News
Car Reviews
Editorials
Video
Product Reviews
Tips & Advice
Join Now
My History
Account Settings
Log out
Top stories
These 8 Corvettes Are So Hot Right Now
Trump Praises Hyundai Spending Money in Louisiana
Report: Incendiary Devices Found At Texas Tesla Showroom
See Edits
Editorials
Industry
29 Views
Why GM Should Hire Alan Mulally
by
Ken Elias
(IC: employee)
Published:  July 12th, 2011
Share
Alan Mulally should be named Chairman and CEO of General Motors…immediately. The General needs talented executive leadership with experience in the automotive industry. And if you look at the track record so far of GM’s present top management – Lt. Dan and his sidekick Girsky – there’s no reason to believe they’ll do any better tomorrow.Let’s call this the way we see it – Alan Mulally is more talented than anyone else running an auto company today. He comes from an industrial production background, he’s an engineer by training, and knows in his heart that product supremacy wins sales. And let’s keep in mind that Ford was a basket case when he took the reins. Today, it’s net cash positive, its corporate credit rating will move to investment grade within a year, and the cars and trucks are industry-leading, not me-too followers. This is a result from a guy that has had two jobs proving that he can run complex industrial companies successfully (Boeing Commercial Airplane and Ford). And GM needs him desperately.I’m not here to bash Dan Akerson. Others have already done that. Maybe he’s the right guy to run a telecom company. The real question is – and one US Taxpayers should ask – don’t we want the best guy (or gal) possible running the largest industrial beneficiary of our funds? We still own 32% of this company – and need the stock price to be at least $54 to come out whole. At today’s price of $31 share, that’s a lot of ground to cover. Ask yourself this – can Dan Akerson achieve the results needed or is there someone better? Duh…the answer is….Alan!So here’s the pitch. First, Alan’s departure from Ford wouldn’t decimate that company. The plan is already in place for the next five years of future products. The groundwork is done – everyone knows the plan. The only questions remaining for the company are: 1) Can Ford succeed in Asia; and 2) Can (or should) Lincoln be resurrected? We just don’t know who could replace him – and another outsider might be the best choice to keep the company from backsliding into endless turf battles. To the point though, Ford is in good enough shape today that a new CEO already has a good roadmap from the start.Second, there’s no such thing as industrial secrets in Detroit – everyone has a view (mostly) into what everyone else is doing. So Alan would bring the industrial secrets with him to GM but so what? Where Ford has been successful to date is well communicated – and that’s its EcoBoost strategy combined with global platforms (where possible). Continued leadership in NAFTA light trucks with its own diesels in the heavy duty models (and maybe in the F-150 soon). Layer on top of that advances in electronic wizardry and there you have the future of Ford’s products. Would his knowledge of Ford’s future strategies benefit GM? I doubt it. GM has a different set of problems, a larger and somewhat disjointed global footprint, and no real discernible or differentiating product strategy (at least in North America). Building 120,000 Chevy Volts (and Opel Amperas) per year, if even possible, isn’t a strategy.Third, it’s time to realize that Ford and GM are US companies with a depository of industrial talent and know-how that should be nourished and cultivated. The real battle isn’t between these two Detroit companies as in the past (Chrysler was always a third-place player with no global presence) but against the Germans, the Japanese, and now the Koreans. Eventually, everyone will be competing against the Chinese too (but that’s a way off). It’s important that the US have two leading companies in automotive – especially given that there is an explosion of new technology (engines, electrification, materials, safety, electronics, emissions, etc.) coming. This is a worldwide battle for dominance – not a regional play – and that takes scale and reinvested profits to play the game. Ford’s got the profits but GM is still finding its way everywhere but in China. Alan’s leadership at GM will make it the global automotive powerhouse it should be – and help secure for the USA the intellectual property, the talent, and the industrial base needed to keep the USA in the game.And last, the Government needs to exit its ownership of GM promptly and at least on a breakeven basis. To get to the finish line, you go with your best horse and jockey. The bankruptcy of GM fixed most of the ailments of the old horse – and that was its crushing debt load, its retiree benefits, and superfluous brands and factories, and its uncompetitive labor costs. But what hasn’t been yet fixed at GM is the problem of real leadership from the corner office. GM’s Board needs to hire Alan to the job.Everyone wants GM and Ford to succeed. We want these two companies to battle it out for dominance of the US market – and carry the flag of American innovation and brilliance to the other corners of the globe. (Chrysler in third place – still – keeps everything interesting though.) But to get there, GM needs Alan Mulally.
Share
Print
#Editorial
#Industry
#People
Add/Edit
+ Add Hashtags
Ken Elias
More by Ken Elias
Published
July 12th, 2011 7:34 PM
Comments
Join the conversation
3 of 69 comments
See more
Doctor olds
on Jul 13, 2011
Mullally may be a great leader, but he is not the super hero some seem to imagine. Ford has a very large number of others who can share the "glory". GM, while our government still owns a stake, could not compensate Mullally nearly enough to attract him, even if they wanted to.
Besides, General Motors is actually doing quite well from profit and sales volume perspectives.
Just for the record:
GM made nearly as much just in North America (around $5.7B) as Ford made globally last year (around $6.2B). Losses in Europe (around $1.6B) dragged GM's net outside North America to a $0.5B loss, or thereabouts. GM Europe is projected to break even this year and be profitable next year. GM appears quite likely to surpass Ford's profit this year, if these projections come to pass.
GM is also very much larger than Ford and gaining share, selling hundreds of thousands more in America in 2011, year to date and well over 3 million more vehicles world wide last year. GM is on track to regain the #1 rank globally in 2011, projected to outsell second place VW Group by over 1,000,000 and Toyota by 2,000,000.
I share concerns about GM losing its focus on product excellence again, but it is far too early to tell if that will come to pass.
Like
Reply
Z71_Silvy
on Jul 13, 2011
Mullally may be a great leader, but he is not the super hero some seem to imagine.
Be gone with you devil man!
How dare you speak the truth about Saint Al???
TTAC will soon be removing your comment...
Like
Andyjwagner
on Jul 15, 2011
GM? No, we need Alan in the White House.
Like
Reply
Sign Up to Comment
Insurance Hub
Get Answers
Latest Car Reviews
2025 Genesis GV80 Coupe Review -- Smooth Sailing
2025 Hyundai Ioniq 5 Review -- Going Off Grid
2025 Hyundai Tucson XRT AWD Review -- No Fuss, No Muss
2024 Jeep Wagoneer S Review -- Finding the Space Between UPDATED
2025 Volkswagen.ID Buzz Pro Plus 4Motion Review -- Attention Getter
2025 Toyota GR86 Review -- Change For The Sake Of Change
2025 Nissan Murano Review – Stepping Forward
Read more
Latest Product Reviews
2024 Ford Ranger Raptor Video Review
2024 TTAC Black Friday Gift Guide
The Impact of All-Terrain Tires on Fuel Economy
How to Maximize the Lifespan of Your Rugged Terrain Tires
Stuff We Use: Power Inverters
Read more
Recent Comments
Joe65688619 I'm digging the adaptive headlights on my 2024 Caddy that illuminate in the corners when you turn.  It's subtle but really helps seeing what you're turning towards, especially with LED lamps which cast a tighter beam.
28-Cars-Later The funniest part is how lax the security was at the Corvette plant that complete amateur criminals could steal eight C8s without GM even being aware. I could see when Lordstown was in operation just not caring about a coupe Cruzes going missing but these are $100,000+ cars. Does Ferrari's assembly plant use "12345" as a security code? Does Bentley sometimes forget to lock the front gates at Crewe?
MrIcky All I see is another day of love.
Jalop1991 Will the workers leave banjos in the fenders?
The Oracle Smokey Yunick’s 100mpg carb is gonna make a proper mass-production introduction.
Next
Prev
You may also be interested in
Where Your Author Owns a Used BMW Convertible for a Second Year
See 33 Photos of the Volkswagen ID.7 -- Which is Now Forbidden Fruit
View Gallery
This is the 2025 Porsche 911 Carrera T
Ram Quietly Ends Production of the 1500 Classic Pickup Truck
Report: Mercedes Likely to Revive the V8 Engine in Future C 63 Models
Gas Vehicle Owners Can Get Up to $6,000 Off a New Rivian With Trade-In Offer
2025 Toyota GR Corolla Review -- Six Versus DAT
Volkswagen Sets Pricing for ID.4
Used Car of the Day: 2011 Mitsubishi Lancer Evo X GSR
RCMP Sitting on Piles of Unsold Cruisers, Now Crushing Some
Stellantis Elevates Three to New Brand Leadership Positions
Used Car of the Day: 2013 Mitsubishi Lancer GT
Nokian Rolls Out Ultra High Performance Tire, the Surpass AS01
QOTD: Should Stellantis HQ Return to The States?
Used Car of the Day: 2014 Fiat 500 Abarth
QOTD: What Are You Making For Thanksgiving?
Elon's Presidential Investments Could Pay Off Further With Potential Government Tesla Purchase UPDATED
Mexico and the U.S. Agree to Pause Tariffs for One Month
Car Reviews By Make
view all
Acura
Audi
BMW
Buick
Cadillac
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Dodge
Ford
GMC
Honda
Hyundai
Infiniti
Jaguar
Jeep
Kia
Land Rover
Lexus
Lincoln
Maserati
Mazda
Mercedes-Benz
MINI
Mitsubishi
Nissan
Porsche
Subaru
Toyota
Volkswagen
Volvo
About
Privacy
Terms
Contact us
Copyright
Follow us
© 2025  VerticalScope Inc. All rights reserved.