Barnabe (1938) - Alexander Esway - film review and synopsis
Barnabé (1938)
Directed by Alexander Esway
Comedy
Film Review
Barnabé is a convoluted yet nevertheless entertaining farce of the kind
that was very popular in France in the 1930s.  With its mocking yet affectionate
view of the aristocracy, complicated romantic liaisons, and larger than life comic characters,
the story is pure P.G. Wodehouse, and just as funny.
However, what really brings the film to life is an extraordinary physical performance from Fernandel, France's leading
comic actor at the time.
As in many of his early films, Fernandel breaks into song at the most unlikely moments.
This includes his show-stopping rendition of the film's title song, Barnabé,
which went on to become a popular song in its own right.  A magnificent blend of
slapstick and vaudeville, this is a film which has much to commend it, even if the plot
is a little overly complicated and rushed.
© James Travers 2000
The above content is owned by frenchfilms.org and must not be copied.
Film Synopsis
Leaving his home in Provence, Barnabé, a simple-minded flute-player,
arrives in Paris and sets about trying to find himself a job.  Thanks
to a cousin of his, he is engaged by Madame Petit-Durand to perform at a
party to mark her daughter Jackie 's twentieth birthday.  Upon his arrival
at the impressive Petit-Durand residence, Barnabé is immediately mistaken
for the Count Paul de Marengo, the wealthy aristocrat to whom his employer
intends to marry her daughter.  Little does Madame Petit-Durand know
that Jackie has already found her ideal soul mate, in André Dubreuil.
As it turns out, Barnabé has no interest in Jackie, since he has lost
his heart to his employer's pretty maid, Rose.  Unfortunately for him,
Rose happens to be the daughter of the local policeman, a stern old sourpuss
who is about to become Barnabé's worst enemy.  As for the real
Count de Marengo, he has already found the woman he intends to marry.
Despite the well-intended match-making schemes of Madame Petit-Durand everything
turns out well in the end, with not one but three happy couples plighting
their troth...
© James Travers
The above content is owned by frenchfilms.org and must not be copied.
Similar Films
Here are some other films you may enjoy watching:
Cigalon (1935)
Tout va très bien madame la marquise (1936)
La Famille Duraton (1939)
Sérénade aux nuages (1946)
Atoll K (1951)
Other related links:
The best French films of the 1930s
The best French comedies
Film Credits
Director: Alexander Esway
Script: Jean Bastia, Alin Monjardin, Jean Aurenche, Paul Nivoix (dialogue)
Cinematographer: Charles Bauer,
Maurice Pecqueux,
Gérard Perrin,
Marius Raichi
Music: Roger Dumas, Casimir Oberfeld
Cast: Fernandel (Barnabé),
Marguerite Moreno (La marquise de Marengo),
Andrex (André Dubreuil),
Lucien Callamand (Ricavel),
Germaine Charley (Madame Petit-Durand),
Charles Dechamps (Adhemar),
Paulette Dubost (Rose),
Josseline Gaël (Mado),
Claude May (Jackie Petit-Durand),
Noël Roquevert (Hilaire),
Roland Toutain (Paul de Marengo),
Jean Témerson (Firmin),
Arthur Devère,
Louis Florencie,
Max Rogerys,
Victor Vina
Country: France
Language: French
Support: Black and White
Runtime: 95 min
The very best of French film comedy
Thanks to comedy giants such as Louis de Funès, Fernandel, Bourvil and Pierre Richard, French cinema abounds with comedy classics of the first rank.
Read more...
The silent era of French cinema
Before the advent of sound France was a world leader in cinema. Find out more about this overlooked era.
Read more...
The history of French cinema
From its birth in 1895, cinema has been an essential part of French culture.  Now it is one of the most dynamic, versatile and important of the arts in France.
Read more...
The best French Films of the 1910s
In the 1910s, French cinema led the way with a new industry which actively encouraged innovation.  From the serials of Louis Feuillade to the first auteur pieces of Abel Gance, this decade is rich in cinematic marvels.
Read more...
The greatest French Films of all time
With so many great films to choose from, it's nigh on impossible to compile a short-list of the best 15 French films of all time - but here's our feeble attempt to do just that.
Read more...
Other things to look at
Biography of Jacqueline Audry
Review of Cargaison blanche
Review of Impact
Review of L'Heritier
Review of La Ligne de demarcation
Home
Contact us
About us
Privacy
Terms of use
Copyright
Copyright © frenchfilms.org 1998-2024All rights reserved
All content on this page is protected by copyright
HOME
INDEX
BEST OF
ACTORS
QUIZ
SEARCH