Public Information Films - The National Archives
This website uses cookies
We place some essential cookies on your device to make this website work.
We'd like to use additional cookies to remember your settings and understand how you use our services.
This information will help us make improvements to the website.
Set cookie preferences
Skip to main content
Menu
Visit
What’s on
Explore the collection
Help using the archive
Education
Professional guidance and services
Search
Shop
Search our website
Search Discovery, our catalogue
Search our website
Search Discovery, our catalogue
Home >
Education > Classroom resources > Public Information Films
Public Information Films
For the first time on The National Archives’ website you can view complete public information films from 1945 -2006. Joining with the Central Office of Information (COI) to celebrate their 60th Anniversary. This film collection can be used to provide social, economic, and political context for 20th Century British History topics.
This resource has been archived as the interactive parts no longer work. You can still use the rest of it for information, tasks or research. Please note that it has not been updated since its creation in 2006.
Go to Public Information Films
You can find more content on this topic in our other resources:
Themed collections
Attlee’s Britain 1945-1951
Planning for the future?
Fifties Britain
Never so good? Or too good to be true?
Sixties Britain
A social and cultural revolution?
Commonwealth migration since 1945
What was the context and impact of migration in modern Britain?
Cold War on File
Why did the Cold War emerge?
Finding aid
Women’s Histories
This resource contains a hyperlinked list of National Archives current resources for Women’s histories on The National Archives website.
The National Archives
Kew, Richmond
TW9 4DU
Follow us
The National Archives X feed (formally known as Twitter)
The National Archives YouTube channel
The National Archives Facebook page
The National Archives Flickr feed
The National Archives Instagram feed
The National Archives TikTok feed
Quick links
About us
Contact us
News
Blog
Podcasts
Image library
Press room
Jobs
British citizenship services
Historical Manuscripts Commission
Other websites
UK Government Web Archive
Legislation.gov.uk
Find case law
The Gazette
The National Archives Trust
Friends of The National Archives
Sign up to our emails
Hear about our latest news, stories from the collection and priority booking for events.
Subscribe
Accessibility statement
Freedom of information
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated
GOV.UK