Earth vs. Space Chess Match
Northwest Chess
This is a Northwest Chess archival page. For current
information and links, click on Home.
NWC:
Home >
Articles >
Events > 2008 > Earth-Space
Earth vs. Space Chess Match
Reported by David Hendricks, Stevenson Chess Coach,
WA Scholastic Chess Coordinator,Rev. October 13, 2008
A PDF file
version of this story is also available.
Earth is taking on Space in a
chess match which started Sep 28th 2008, and Bellevue’s Stevenson
Elementary Chess Team is in the thick of it. ChessMagnetSchool.com, working with
the USCF and NASA, has set up a chess match between astronaut Gregory Chamitoff,
currently on the International Space Station, and Earth. Earth is being
represented by 11 members of the Stevenson Elementary Chess team, who took the
2008 K-3 National Championship and the K-5 U900 National Championship last April
in Pittsburgh, PA.
American astronaut Gregory Chamitoff, born in Montreal Canada, but raised in California,
has a BS in Electrical Engineering, an MS in Aeronautical Engineering, a Ph.D in
Aeronautics and Astronautics, and another MS in Planetary Geology (busy
guy!). He has developed autonomous flight vehicles, written papers on spacecraft
guidance, and was a crew member on the Aquarius undersea research habitat. He
also does scuba diving, backpacking, flying, racquetball, Aikido, juggling,
magic, and guitar. Talk about the right stuff! He is spending 6 months on the
International Space Station, scheduled to return November 2008.
And he plays chess. He doesn’t have an official USCF
rating, but he has won all his games against the Houston NASA ground control in
previous matches. He played chess as a young man and organized some chess matches informally.
Hal Bogner, Marty Hirsch, and Harlan Lee (from Bellevue WA), designers of
ChessMagnetSchool.com, a website that is used by many Washington Elementary kids
to learn chess, set up this match. Hal picked the Stevenson Chess team to
represent earth since they were the National K-3 champions. Astronaut Greg is
playing the white pieces using a Velcro chess board (I guess a magnetic chess
set would interfere with delicate electronics on board). You can hear a loud
ripping sound as he picks up a piece - then he lets it float in space before
setting it down. He sends down his move to Houston ground control, who gives it
to Hal, who puts it up on a website at
http://uschess.org/nasa2008.
Then Stevenson gets involved. The 11 national
team members now in 3rd through 5th grades all vote on 3
choices for their response as black. The coaches don’t prompt them on their
choices - this is the kid’s game. As coach, I get to collect their votes and
pass the top 4 candidate moves back to Hal, who puts it up on the website and
opens up voting to the Earth team. Anyone from Earth (sorry, no
extra-terrestrials allowed) can then vote on any of the 4 choices, and the move
that gets the most votes is selected as Earth’s move.
At this writing (Oct 13th 2008), the game has proceeded as follows:
See USCF site:
http://uschess.org/nasa2008 for additional moves as the game progresses.
1. d4 Nf6
2. Nf3 d5
3. Bf4 c5
4. e3 Nc6
5. Bb5 Qa5+
We are facing the London System. Check the website to see subsequent moves to the
game. The game proceeds at a slow pace, about 1 move every 48 hours. Greg can
only play as his time allows, he has a lot of science experiments he is in
charge of. Once, the game was delayed while we waited for the astronauts to
boost the space station into a higher orbit to prepare for docking.
But that is not all! Greg decided he would like to talk face to face with his
challengers. So we setup a live video link. Bellevue Community College had the
equipment and technical personnel to make this happen on our end, and NASA took
care of their end. BCC tried to point a receiver dish at the NASA satellite, but
it was too low on the horizon and there were too many trees in the way. So Hal
had to purchase time on a different satellite that was high enough in the sky
for BCC to see, and we bounced the transmission back from earth up to the second
satellite, then down to Bellevue. This created about a 5 second delay in the
transmission. We had 10 kids from Stevenson get out of school and go to BCC on
Thursday, Oct 10th for the live feed. The kids sat on risers on stage
with a TV set in front where we could see Greg, and a camera on the kids so Greg
could see us.
We had the kids think up a question they wanted to ask Greg, and we had to pass the
questions by NASA first to get approved. Each kid had one question, written on a
3x5 card, ready to ask. 10 minutes before we went live, I get a phone call from
Houston, saying “Delete question 4”. I had to scramble to figure out which
question that was, and what was wrong with it. Turned out, it was “Have you ever
got sick in space and thrown up?” Typical kid question, but maybe not the public
image NASA wanted in their broadcast going out to the world. So I frantically
replaced it with another question.
We had Jennie Mayer, the BCC Chess Club director give some introductions to an audience
of about 100 consisting of chess parents, media, BCC faculty, students, and
other guests. Then Harlan spoke and thanked everyone involved. Elliott Neff
introduced the kids to the audience. Art Goss, the BCC astronomy professor had a
slide show about the International Space Station, its trajectory over the earth,
some stories about astronauts landing off course in Russia and fending off
wolves for 24 hours before they were found, etc. It was quite entertaining.
The broadcast started on time at 11:05am. After Houston confirmed they had a
connection to the International Space Station, as moderator, I got to start off
with “Station, this is the Stevenson Chess team from Bellevue WA, how do you
hear us?” Then we waited for 5 seconds of silence, then we hear back from Greg,
“I hear you loud and clear”. We had only 20 minutes, so after a brief
introduction, we got right into the kids questions which they asked themselves:
“My name is Jiayi Hu, I am in 5th grade, and my question is: Do you think there
is intelligent life on other planets?” Greg responded that the universe is huge,
he can really see that better from space, and that just our galaxy is 100
thousand light years across, and that it would be an enormous waste of space if
there wasn’t life out there somewhere.”
Then the kids asked more questions and got answers:
“How has chess helped you in your career as an astronaut?” “It
helped me to think logically and stimulate my mind – doing well in science and
math is important in working on the space station – chess is a great game to
prepare kids for the future – your generation will take us to Mars and beyond”.
“When you are floating in space, have you ever hurt yourself?”
“Well, you do have to be careful, there is no gravity here, but heavy things
still have mass and you can hurt yourself if you bump into them.”
“How do you exercise in space?” “We have exercise equipment like
stationary bikes and treadmills, but we need bungee cords to hold us down. We
exercise for 2 hours a day to avoid losing muscle and bone mass.”
“What landmarks can you see from space?” Greg was over Australia
at the time, and he said he can see from one end of the Australian continent to
the other. He also can see the Egyptian pyramids, and the Grand Canyon in
Arizona really stands out. When he goes over Seattle, he can see all the way up
to Alaska, and all the way down to Southern California. The “boot” of Italy
really stands out.
“Do you have any food cravings and what is the first thing you
want to eat when you return?” “The food is pretty good up here, but we don’t
have anything cold, so I crave chocolate ice-cream”
“Would a goldfish survive in space?” “Yes, the water is held
together with surface tension, and you could even have the top of the bowl open
to the air, but if the fish swam out of the water, there would be no gravity to
pull him back in.”
“What is the craziest thing you have done in space?” “When the
Japanese delivered a new module, all 10 astronauts went inside and did flips and
acrobatics since there was so much room inside”.
My favorite question - “How did you get the OK from your mom to
become an astronaut when it is so risky?” (Kids have different worries than
adults.) “My parents were very supportive – my mom (I call her Astro-mom) was
nervous on blastoff, but is better now – anything worthwhile involves some risk,
but it is pretty safe up here.”
“What does blast-off feel like, and would you do it again?” “You
bet I would, it was a blast, it was not that bad, smoother than I expected, kind
of like a Disney ride – it was emotionally overwhelming, after preparing for it
all my life”
At the close, as we were signing off, I gave Greg a warning that these kids were good,
and they were not going to go easy on him. Then Greg did a couple of flips for
us. I then said to the kids off camera, OK, your turn, all of you do a flip now
(just kidding). The kids thought this event was awesome - very cool.
The event was taped and will be shown from time to time on NASA TV. Comcast carries NASA
TV periodically on channel 76 in the Bellevue area, it may also be available on
Direct TV. KOMO Radio was there, the Bellevue Reporter is covering the event, we
had media inquires from Washington DC, and even the Dutch Children's newspaper
Kidsweek. These Web sites have more information about the event and the game:
NASA site:
http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/expeditions/expedition17/chess_opponents.html
USCF site:
http://uschess.org/nasa2008
Video of the event:
http://xpstream.winisp.net/exchange/SpaceTalk.wmv
Photos:
Astronaut Greg Chamitoff takes a break from his activities to chat with his opponents at
Stevenson Elementary School in Bellevue WA in the ongoing Earth vs. Space chess match.
Stevenson team photo at 2008 National Elementary Championships in Pittsburgh, PA.
The Stevenson Chess Team with coaches David Hendricks and Elliott Neff talk live with
astronaut Greg Chamitoff. (Photo by Qiang Wang, father of Stevenson player Patrick Wang.)
The Stevenson Elementary Chess Team from Washington, 2008 K-3 National Champions, 2008 K-5 U900 National Champions,
participating in the Earth vs. Space Chess Match: (Individual team member pictures
by Chris Oquendo, owner of MyChessPhotos.com.)
Kevin Ma: 3rd grade
Amith Vanmane: 4th grade
Patrick Wang: 4th grade
Stephen Embry: 4th grade
Daniel Hua: 4th grade
Nathan Chou: 4th grade
Nikolai Warner: 4th grade
Eric Chen: 5th grade
Kevin Qiu: 5th grade
Grace Sun: 5th grade
Jiayi Hu: 5th grade
In addition, other Stevenson players who
were part of the National Team but have graduated to middle school are: Leanne
Hwa, Bryan Yu, Brandon Wang, Allen Yuan, and Robert Zhang. Also Kindergartner
Jeffrey Yan was at Nationals.