Top Transplant Surgery Center in India | Dr. Subhash Gupta
The Most Trusted
Liver Transplant Centre in India.  Welcome to CLBS
Book Appointment
Home
About the Liver
Anatomy
Functions of the liver
What makes the liver unique
Taking care of your liver
Diet Lifestyle
Liver Transplant
Liver Transplant in India
life after transplant
Live Donor Liver Transplant
Pre transplant case follow up
Liver Transplant in Children
Liver Transplant Cost in India
Combined Liver Kidney Transplant
Liver Diseases
Hepatitis
Cirrhosis CLD Treatment
Alcoholic liver disease
Acute liver failure
Liver Tumors Cancer
Liver Diseases in Children
Biliary Disorders
Non Alcoholic Liver Disease
Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease
Liver Treatment Hospital
Liver Disease Treatment
Medicine For Liver
About CLBS
Mission Statement
About Dr. Subhash Gupta
Infrastructure
Achievements
Transplant Coordinators
Training Research
What is different at CLBS
Patient Experiences
Transplant Recipients
Transplant Donors
Other Patients
Contact
Patient Login
LEADING TRANSPLANT SURGERY CENTER
EXPERIENCED TEAM OF MORE THAN 200 DOCTOR’S AND PARAMEDICS
Consult With Our Team
MORE THAN 300 LIVER TRANSPLANTS EVERY YEAR
Previous
Next
ABOUT CLBS
The Centre for Liver and Biliary Sciences (CLBS) at Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket, is one of the Best hospitals for liver treatment in Delhi. It has a cumulative experience of over 2500 liver transplant operations.
Our Surgeons, Physicians, Anesthetists, Intensive Care Physicians, Radiologists, and Nurses have been working together as a team in the care of patients with liver diseases since 1998.
TRANSPLANT OPERATION
MEDICAL COUNSELING
QUALIFIED DOCTORS
EMERGENCY SERVICES
Make an Appointment
Book Appointment Now
HOW CAN YOU HELP
EACH ONE CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE
Previous
Next
MALL MIRACLES SHARED BY OUR PATIENTS
Families and patients share stories of anguish, hope and life in their fight against liver diseases.
Read their stories to understand there is hope for all patients suffering from this terminal disease
Read More
CONDITION & TREATMENTS
CLBS delivers holistic care to patients with Liver and gastrointestinal diseases. We focus on individualizing the patient's treatment according to the nature and stage of his disease and the functional status of his other organ systems—his heart, his lungs, coexisting diabetes, or any other health problems that he may have. We are the
best liver transplant hospital in India!
HEPATITIS A & E
Hepatitis A&E is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe
illness.
Read More
HEPATITIS B
Hepatitis B is the most common liver infection in the world and is caused by the hepatitis B virus.
Read More
ACUTE LIVER FAILURE
Acute liver failure occurs when your liver rapidly loses its ability to function.
Read More
ALCOHOLIC LIVER DISEASE
Alcohol is the most widely abused agent in the world, and its excessive intake is the leading cause of liver disease.
Read More
Liver Tumors Cancer
Tumors are abnormal masses of tissue that form when cells begin to reproduce at an increased rate.
Read More
Liver Diseases in Children
Children often show some signs of persistent (chronic) liver disease.
Read More
Biliary Disorders
Biliary disease affects the bile ducts, gallbladder, and other structures engaged in the production and transportation of bile.
Read More
Liver Transplant
The liver is among the body’s most crucial organs, and performs a host of vital functions.
Read More
Specialist In Liver Disease
Hepatitis
CLD Treatmental
Liver Disease
Liver Failure
Tumors Cancer
Liver Diseases in Children
Biliary Disorders
Non Alcoholic Liver Disease
Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease
Liver Treatment Hospital
Liver Disease Treatment
Medicine For Liver
Specialist In liver Transplant
Life after Transplant
Donor Liver Transplant
Pre Transplant case
Liver Transplant in Children
Liver Transplant Cost
Liver Kidney Transplant
Transplant Donors
Liver Transplant in india
Health Blogs
Liver Transplant
Symptoms of Liver Disease
Liver Disease Management
Liver and Kidney Transplantation
Liver Transplantation
What is liver failure?
Transplant Surgery
Alcohol Consumption on Liver Health
Frequently asked questions
When is liver transplantation performed in children?
The transplant is required when the liver is so badly and irreversibly damaged
that only a new healthy liver offers any chance for the child's long-term survival.
What diseases damage the liver so severely?
Some of the more common ones are:
Congenital abnormalities
Extrahepatic biliary atresia
Sclerosing cholangitis
Metabolic liver disease
Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency
Wilson’s Disease
Tyrosinemia
Glycogen storage diseases
Hyperoxaluria
Crigler-Najjar type II
Hyperammonemic syndromes
Acute hepatic necrosis (death of liver tissue) due to:
Toxins
Drugs
Viral infections
Unknown causes
Cirrhosis – a chronic problem that impairs the liver’s ability to remove toxins (poisonous
substances)
from the body
Autoimmune – cirrhosis resulting from the body’s immune system attacking the liver
Cryptogenic – cirrhosis that has an uncertain cause
Cholestatic liver disease
Liver tumors, both malignant and benign (noncancerous)
Other diseases and conditions
Congenital hepatic fibrosis
Caroli Disease
Cystic fibrosis
What kind of evaluation is needed to determine whether a child is a candidate for transplantation?
Before final selection and listing for liver transplantation, the child undergoes a
multidisciplinary
pretransplant evaluation to determine the current status of the liver disease and the extent of
its
progression. All outside medical records, radiological studies, and liver biopsy materials are
reviewed.
The
transplant hepatologist and surgeons do consultations. Blood tests may include
Chemistry panel
Liver panel
Hematology group
Coagulation studies
Blood typing and antibody screen
Infectious diseases: hepatitis serologies, HIV, cytomegalovirus
Imaging studies and other tests
Ultrasound of the liver
Liver biopsy (optional)
After these assessments and tests are completed, our team of experts meets with the family
and
discusses
all treatment options.
Where do donor livers come from?
There are two sources: living donors and recently deceased donors.
Deceased donors are individuals whose organs have been made available for donation at their request before death or by their families after death. The types of deceased-donor transplants include:
Full graft liver transplantation – The entire liver from a deceased donor is transplanted to a recipient of similar body size.
Reduced-size liver transplantation – A liver from a larger donor is trimmed to fit a smaller recipient.
Split liver transplantation – A large liver is split and shared between a small adult (right lobe) and a child (left lobe).
Unfortunately, deceased donor organs are available only rarely in the Indian subcontinent and across most of Asia.
For more information on living donors, click here (should link to the section of live donor living transplant under transplant operation)
How is living-donor transplantation planned?
One of the advantages of living-donor transplantation is that the procedure can be scheduled at a time that works best for both donor and recipient. For donors, the major issue is their work and family schedule. For the recipient, the principal constraint is a health condition and control of complications. For example, if the recipient develops a sudden fever, the procedure will be delayed until the cause is found and any potential infection controlled.
What is the postoperative period like for the child?
The length of hospitalization will vary, depending on the individual patient. A typical hospital stay for school-age children is 14 to 18 days.
Patients are placed on immunosuppressive drugs to prevent rejection of the transplanted liver. Since immunosuppressants make patients vulnerable to bacterial and viral diseases, they are monitored for signs and symptoms of infection.
The transplant team also monitors the child for signs of bleeding and other potential postoperative complications. Rarely will a patient have to return to the operating room to evaluate and treat a postoperative complication.
What happens once the child leaves the hospital?
Initially, the patient visits the Clinic twice a week for laboratory work and physician examinations. As recovery progresses, these visits become less frequent. Our team will continue to provide follow-up care even after the patient is able to return home.
The Centre for Liver and Biliary Sciences (CLBS) at Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket is one of the largest
liver
transplant programs of the world. It has now a cumulative experience of over 2500 liver transplant operations.
Useful Links
Achievements at CLBS
Learn more about liver disease
Learn more about our consultants
Liver transplant in India
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Transplant Hepatology Course 2021
Useful Links
For Professionals
Training at CLBS
Research
Career opportunities
Observership
Conferences
Donating your liver
Who can donate
Making a decision
What does it involve
Legal procedures for liver donation
Emergency Numbers
FAQs
Gallery
Blog
Contact Info
Max Center For Liver And Biliary Sciences,
Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket
Press Enclave Road, Saket
110017, New Delhi , DL India
+91 981 107 5683
livertransplant@gmail.com
©2024. Transplant Liver.All Rights Reserved. Designed by Raising Web Solutions