Film 1940s I: Warners, Goldwyn, Paramount
History of Musical Film
Screen 1940's I:
Warners, Goldwyn & Paramount
by John Kenrick
(Copyright 1996; revised 2020)
World War II: Yankee Doodle Dandy
Warner Brothers
Goldwyn: Danny Kaye
Paramount: Bing Crosby
(The images below are thumbnails – click on
them to see larger versions.)
WWII: Yankee Doodle Dandy
The
original sheet music cover for Irving Berlin's "Be Careful,
It's My Heart," introduced by Bing Crosby in  Holiday Inn (1942).
Throughout the 1940s, America was either preparing for, fighting in or helping
the world recover from World War II. Since movie goers needed breaks from often nightmarish
realities, humor and unquestioning praise for "American values" were Hollywood's
cinematic order of the day.
Several major stars (Clark Gable, Jimmy Stewart, etc.) served in battle,
and many
others pitched in by providing entertainment. Almost every screen star toured
military camps and sold war bonds. At the same time, Hollywood's musicals, sometimes patriotic,
sometimes nostalgic (often both), provided a much needed morale boost before, during and after
the war.
The songs were key attractions. In the 1940s, film songs frequently topped the
pop charts. The most popular songwriters of the era all wrote for Hollywood, including Kern,
Berlin, Porter, Fields, Warren, Rodgers and Hammerstein. So it is no surprise that many of the
biggest hit songs of the World War II era ("White Christmas,"
"You'll Never Know," etc.) were introduced on screen.
As in the 1930s, each major studio had its own approach to churning
out hits, what some scholars refer to as a "house style."
Warner Brothers
After the departure of Busby Berkeley, Warner Bros. had no director specializing
in musicals. Occasionally, the studio dipped into its
talent pool to produce musicals, most notably several biographies using existing
songs.
The best, and arguably the most entertaining musical film bio of all time,
was Yankee Doodle Dandy (1942), which soared thanks to
James Cagney's Oscar-winning performance as
Broadway legend George M. Cohan. Top-rank director
Michael Curtiz gave the film exceptional overall polish. This flag-waving film
sanitized any controversial aspects of Cohan's life, providing a first rate morale
booster for a nation at war. Thanks to frequent broadcasts on television, this film
has reintroduced several generations to Cohan's most memorable songs, and kept alive
a great name that might have otherwise faded into obscurity. There were many patriotic
screen musicals during World War II, but none matched this one's lasting appeal, even
though it was filmed in budget-conscious black and white.
Warners and director Curtiz had less success with Night and Day (1946),
its Technicolor musical bio of composer Cole Porter. Even the suave Cary Grant
is unable to find much humor in the lifeless screenplay, but the real
embarrassment is the equally lifeless performances of Porter's great songs. The
only moment of real magic comes when  Mary Martin recreates her star-making
performance of "My Heart Belongs to Daddy."  Otherwise, this film
makes for dull, factually fatuous viewing. Sadly, Hollywood would do an even
worse job with its next Porter bio, De-Lovely (2004).
In the late 1940s, Warners began a profitable series of musicals
starring Doris Day, a band singer who proved
to be a fine actress with an appealing screen presence. Her most memorable
musicals would come in the next decade.
Goldwyn: Danny Kaye
When his 1930s star Eddie Cantor eased away from film
projects,  independent producer Sam Goldwyn  went in search of new
musical comedy talent. He found Danny
Kaye, whose zany comedy had won praise in the Broadway hits Lady in the Dark
(1940) and Let's Face It (1940). Goldwyn featured the slim, nimble
Brooklyn comic in a series of hilarious screen musicals, including Up in Arms
(1944), Wonder Man (1945), The Kid From Brooklyn (1946) and The
Secret Life of Walter Mitty (1947).
Although Kaye could be difficult to work with, he had a good
professional relationship with the equally difficult Goldwyn. Kaye went on to
other studios after 1947, but re-teamed with Goldwyn for Hans Christian Andersen
(1952). With a delightful score by Frank Loesser
("Anywhere I Wander," "The Ugly Duckling," "Thumbelina"),
it remains a perennial favorite on TV and home video more than half a century later.
Paramount: Bing Crosby
Rhythm on the River
(1940) was no classic, but it offered innocent fun with Bing Crosby and Broadway favorite Mary Martin as
struggling songwriters.
Bing Crosby remained America's most popular entertainer
and Paramount's top musical star through the 1940s. He became the only person who ever
reigned as Hollywood's top box office star for five consecutive years -- 1944 through 1948.
Affectionately referred to as "Der Bingle," his warm vocals and laid-back screen personality made him one of the most recognized celebrities
in the world, and a nation at war saw him as a reassuring presence.
"Launched by The Big Broadcast
(1932), Bing Crosby's career soared in a steady arc; a trajectory ascending with
greater velocity every year until, at its late 1940s pinnacle, he would be
transformed from an actor-singer-star into an incontestable national icon, a
match for motherhood, apple pie and and baseball."
- Gary Giddins, Bing Crosby: A
Pocketful of Dreams, The Early Years 1903-1940 (New York: Little, Brown and
Company, 2001), p. 297.
Aside from Crosby's weekly
radio shows and numerous hit recordings, he toured extensively to entertain the troops,
raised millions for war charities, and starred in more than two dozen films. Not all were
full-fledged screen musicals, but even his comedies usually included a song
or two. America loved to hear Bing sing. For example
The Road series  of comedies co-starred Crosby as a
schemer, Bob Hope  as a bumbler and
Dorothy Lamour as the glamorous sarong-clad beauty they pursue through a
variety of exotic settings. The Road to Singaopore (1940) had four 1940s
sequels, and stretched on until The Road to Hong Kong (1962) -- becoming
the most profitable film series up to that time. In each of these genially sill
comedies, Hope and Crosby exchanged barbs and played a riotous game of patty-cake, with
an on-screen chemistry that both spoofed and reflected their
close off-screen friendship. Formulaic but reliably funny, the Road films introduced
several hit songs including the Hope-Crosby renditions of "Put It There" and
"We're Off On the Road to Morocco," as well as Crosby's solo hit
"Moonlight Becomes You."
Holiday Inn (1942) teamed Crosby with
Fred Astaire, playing two song & dance
men in love with
the same talented girl. This well-worn plot was just an excuse to showcase a truckload
of Irving Berlin tunes, including
"White Christmas." (Bing's recording of that song became the best selling
single of all time, returning to the charts annually for nineteen of the next twenty
years.) Crosby crooned, Astaire danced on air, and audiences loved it all. The two stars
were teamed again in Blue Skies (1946),
using much the same plot and more Berlin tunes.
Going My Way   (1944) had Crosby and the thickly-brogued
Irish actor Barry Fitzgerald as Catholic priests in an impoverished Manhattan parish. The story made
the most of Crosby's trademark warmth, and his renditions of
"Swinging On A Star" and the breezy title tune topped the pop charts. The film,
Crosby and Fitzgerald all won well-deserved Academy Awards, and became Paramount's highest
grossing film up to that time. When RKO invited Crosby to play the role again, he made
his only non-Paramount live action hit of the decade . . .
Bells of St. Mary's (1945) pitted Crosby's Father O'Malley
against Sister  Ingrid Bergman in yet another financially strapped
Catholic parish,
this time trying to preserve a crumbling elementary school. Solid acting triumphed over
a melodramatic plot, and Crosby introduced  "Aren't You Glad You're
You" as well as the sentimental title tune. Although not quite on a par with
Going My Way, this is one of Hollywood's most entertaining sequels.
The Emperor Waltz (1948) had Crosby as a phonograph salesman courting
aristocrat Joan Fontaine in the pre-World War I court of Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph.
The Technicolor results are picturesque, but Bing's fans preferred seeing him in American
settings -- and singing a better grade of songs.
The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad (1949) is Walt Disney's
diverting animated version of two classic fairy tales, with Crosby providing the
narration (both spoken and sung) for Washington Irving's tale of timorous schoolteacher
Ichabod Crane and the fearsome headless horseman.
Crosby's position slipped somewhat with the rise of rock n'
roll in the mid-1950s, but he remained one of America's most beloved entertainers,
making top-rated appearances on stage, screen and television right up until his death
in 1977. The reason for his lasting popularity is simple -- however musical
styles changed, people liked Crosby. To this day, December is not complete
without Bing's mellifluous rendition of "White Christmas."
Next: Part II - Universal, Columbia and Fox
History of Musicals
What is a Musical?
Stage History
Film History
TV History
Bibliography
About John Kenrick
JK's Talk Topics
JK's Upcoming Appearances
Site Index
M101 Video Blog
Special Histories
A Chorus Line 101
Cabaret 101
George Cohan 101
Noel Coward 101
Gilbert & Sullivan 101
NYC Theatres 101
Making Musicals 101
Theatre in NYC: A History
Variety 101
Ziegfeld 101
Reference Resources
Stage Chronology
Film Chronology
Musicals as History
Sample Lyrics
Sample Scenes
Photo Galleries
Show Rights Index
Find a Musical
Who's Who in Musicals
Musicals Calendar
Links
Reviews & Essays
Stage/Screen Reviews
Book Reviews
CD Reviews
Flops on CD
DVD Reviews
Dance in Musicals
Gays and Musicals
Making Musicals
How to Put On A Musical
A.W. Wright: A Life in Vaudeville
Special Features
LOOM Tribute
Miller/Seldin/88s
NYC Restaurants
Contact Us
Home |Histories |
About John Kenrick
| Upcoming Talks | Photo Galleries  |
Links | Contact M101