Top Music Lessons in Indiana | Music Lesson Teachers
Home
Indiana
Get Quotes
Contact Us
Sign In
Music LessonMusic Lesson
TeachersTeachers
Search
Add Your Business
Top Music Teachers in Indiana
A comprehensive list of Indiana private teachers and schools providing music tuition including guitar, piano, drum and violin lessons. Read unbiased reviews and recommendations of local teachers.
Request Free Quotes
Go
recommended
Brian Johns Premier Music Studios
(2)
Indianapolis, IN 46240
Located in the north Marion County Nora area, Premier Music Studios offers private music lessons in guitar piano, voice, strings and woodwinds to students of all ages and offers a warm and spacious atmosphere for enrichment through music.
Emilio Abate — There is always a lot to talk about when the topic is the guitar. Our beloved instrument, in one way or another, is always
Website (317) 850-8984
Indianapolis Music Acdemy
(21)
Indianapolis, IN 46227
Lessons for Guitar, piano, drums, voice, violin, Electric Bass, Ukulele & Mandolin. Fun, easy, step by step lessons in Indianapolis, IN for any age whose goal is to learn a few songs or advanced players who wish learn lead improvisation and become a master of the fretboard.
Clarissa — Does anyone know much about the singing teacher? My daughter just started taking lessons there but wasn't sure if we wanted
Website (317) 719-7020
Dr. Daniel Quinn Classical Guitar Lessons
Fort Wayne, IN 46807
Classical guitar lessons by Fort Wayne's only professional classical guitarist. Dr. Daniel Quinn has a doctorate in classical guitar performance from the prestigious Indiana University School of music and over 25 years of profession performing experience. Lessons are for beginners up to college audition and professional level performance. Lessons cover everything you need to be a successful classical
Website (260) 744-5780
Diana Saltanovitz Piano Studio
(3)
Fishers, IN
Experienced music teacher (M.A. Butler University and 30+ years teaching experience) teaches 30 and 45 minute enjoyable, rewarding, and stress-free piano lessons for students ages 4 through adult.
Susan T. — Mrs. S is a fantastic piano teacher! She is always encouraging, upbeat, and understanding. My daughter probably learned 5
(317) 753-1858
Michael D. Purvis: Teacher of Piano, Voice, Guitar and Music Composition
Indianapolis, IN 46256
Michael D. Purvis is a Butler grad. He's a scholarly but patient and flexible teacher of piano, voice, guitar and music composition. Ukulele, mandolin and banjitar are also possible subjects. Michael has 30 years experience teaching all ages and is a veteran of over ten thousand live performances. What's unique about Michael? He expertly and affordably crafts a course of study to get you just where
Website (317) 577-8842
el GUiTARRiSTA
Fort Wayne, IN 46807
Be a real hero! Are you tired of playing a game? Learn to play the guitar with private lessons. Stop putting it off and set up your personalized guitar lessons today! Music education is a fundamental part of the education of young and old alike. But it doesn't have to be so boring. The guitar is a very enjoyable and fun instrument and I have been teaching it for over 15 years to hundreds of students
Website (260) 402-2122
Ji-Eun Lee Music Academy
(6)
Fishers, IN 46038
JLMA provides professional, degreed music instructors teaching hundreds of students in piano, voice, orchestra (violin, viola, and cello), guitar, drums. We are also a certified Musikgarten school (early childhood development) and we offer several group classes including Sing and Fun, Beginning Piano I and Beginning Piano II. While our focus is on music lessons in the Fishers-Geist-Noblesville geographic
Kim W. — Doug. Maybe you need to get your facts straight before you try to discuss this. I never agreed that we would sit there. I
Website (317) 576-5562
Midwest School Of Music
(1)
Carmel, IN 46278
Providing music lessons in your home, school, teacher's studio, community facility or online. Our teachers are excellent with children and highly qualified. Lessons are offered on most instruments, for any age (including adult) or level.
Greg Greene — We have taken lessons in our home with the Midwest School of Music for over 10 years. During that time, my children have
Website (317) 293-6683
Phyllis Lynch Music
(4)
Greenwood, IN 46143
Lessons in piano, classical and acoustic guitar, and violin. Note reading and theory included, which is necessary in achieving a command of the instrument. Degreed & experienced teacher. Teacher has been teaching for many years and also employed as Church Music Directors and Organist and Pianist. She is also a active performer. Phyllis also performs with several ensembles, records, and has several
Brian Burke — We asked Phyllis to perform at Donor Recognition Event in a non-profit art center. This event was a first effort for everyone
Website (317) 887-2215
Stafford Music Academy
(3)
Bloomington, IN 47401
The Stafford Music Academy is committed to providing high-quality music lessons in Bloomington, Indiana to both children and adults. Established in 2005 by Bloomington native Christopher Stafford, the Stafford Music Academy is now owned by Jessica Harris. We are proud to say that we have helped bring music to thousands of lives.
Marie Colson — My kiddo really likes Ben her guitar teacher, she's picked up quite a lot in the few months we've been there. They have super
Website (812) 339-2505
Indiana
Indianapolis
Fort Wayne
Fishers
Carmel
Evansville
La Porte
Bloomington
Mishawaka
Greenwood
Get free estimates from local recommended businesses
Send your requirements
Receive free estimates
Select the best pro
Get quotes
Get quotes for:
Accordion Lessons
Bagpipe Lessons
Banjo Lessons
Bass Guitar Lessons
Cello Lessons
Christian Music Band Entertainment
Clarinet Lessons
Double Bass Lessons
Drum Lessons
Flute Lessons
Music LessonMusic Lesson
TeachersTeachers
Only recommended businesses
About us
We're hiring
Contact us
My account
Add your business
Get free quotes
Privacy policy
Return policy
Cookies policy
About and contact
Contact us
About us
We're hiring
For businesses and consumers
My account
Add your business
Get free quotes
Terms of use and privacy
Privacy policy
Return policy
Cookies policy