Excavating Demolition Foundations Land Clearing Tree Removal Greater Boston Doherty | Excavating Demolition Foundations Land Clearing Tree Removal Greater Boston Doherty
(857) 251-3951
Contact
Home
Services
General Excavating
Site Preparation
Site Utilities
Foundations
Basements
Land Clearing
Leveling & Grading
Driveways
Storm Water Management
Demolition
About
Request A Quote
excavating services in the boston area
Your Excavating Experts
Welcome to Doherty Excavating, your trusted excavating experts in the greater Boston area. With our extensive experience and commitment to excellence, we provide residential and commercial excavating services that exceed expectations.
Our services
Request A Quote

Get A Quote
(857) 251-3951(617) 233-6783

Open 7 Days a Week
24/7 Emergency Services

Ask A Question
Email Us
Excavating Services
Our Services
Our team of experts specializes in a wide range of excavation services, including general excavating, site utilities, land clearing, grading & leveling, driveways, storm water management, foundations, and demolition.
view all services
Featured Services
Residential
Commercial
N
General Excavating
Our company specializes in general excavating of residential and commercial properties from grading land, driveway preparation, basements, and more.
N
Site Utilities
We provide preparation and installation of all site utilities and infrastructure to provide homeowners and businesses with all their site utility needs.
N
Land Services
Create and preserve your valuable property from site clearing of trees and debris to stormwater management and agricultural sustainability.
Excavation Jobs in Greater Boston
On-Site Recent Excavating Projects
testimonials
Here’s What People Are Saying
The owners and their crew were right down to business and they worked very hard and did an incredible amount of work very efficiently.  Went above and beyond and showed care and concern throughout.  Honest, hardworking, GREAT contractors!
Doherty Excavating is an honest and reliable contractor.  i will hire them again for an upcoming project next spring.
Jane Doe
“
Very professional with great communication.  We had a hole dug for a pool and I would highly recommend this company.
Businesses
Churches
Homeowners
Schools
Municipalities
Parks
Choose Doherty for Your Excavating Job
Your satisfaction is our highest priority
N
Experienced Excavating Team
N
Fully Transparent Bids and Quotes
N
Locally Owned and Operated
N
State of the Art Excavating Equipment

Open 7 Days a Week
24/7 Emergency Services
About Us
Resquest A Quote
Doherty Excavating is a recognized leading excavating contractor serving residential and commercial customers in the Boston area.  We provide excavating services from site preparation and grading to utilities and stormwater management.
Trust us to bring your vision to life with our expertise and dedication.
Contact us
Doherty Excavating, Inc.
872 Turnpike StreetCanton, MA 02021

Open 7 Days a Week
24/7 Emergency Services
Gary: (857) 251-3951
Neil: (617) 233-6783
dohertyexcavating@gmail.com
© 2025 Doherty Excavating, Inc. | All Rights Reserved.