Casino de Montreal hosts poker tournament
Home
Gaming Strategy
Featured Stories
Gaming News
Weekly Newsletter
CasinoCityTimes.com
Home
Gaming Strategy
Featured Stories
News
Newsletter
Legal News
Financial News
Casino Opening and Remodeling News
Gaming Industry Executives
Search News
Subscribe
SEARCH NEWS:
Newsletter Signup
Stay informed with theNEW Casino City Times newsletter!
Related Links
Ranked Online Poker Rooms
Casino de Montréal Details
Related News
$5 million Classic Jackpot lottery win
Loto-Québec announces hotel construction on Casino de Montréal grounds
Loto-Québec reopens and returns to business
SEARCH NEWS:
Gaming News
Casino de Montreal hosts poker tournament
20 February 2008
Casino de Montreal Hosts the World's Largest Automated Poker Tournament on PokerPro
Wednesday February 20, 9:00 am ET
A Record 240 Players Battled It Out on PokerPro Tables During the Casino's First Major Tournament
MATTHEWS, North Carolina -- (PRESS RELEASE) -- On Tuesday, February 12th, 2008, Casino de Montreal hosted the world's largest multi-table poker tournament ever run on automated poker tables. Amazingly, the entire tournament was run with only four staff members.
This inaugural No Limit Texas Hold'em Poker Tournament was held in Casino de Montreal's beautiful new 100% PokerPro poker room, which just opened its doors on January 18th, 2008. The $225 buy-in tournament was sold-out two weeks in advance, with a record 240 players vying for a piece of the prize pool.
Mohamed Nadim, an engineering student, was crowned house champ after he took down 239 players and walked away with $20,000 CAD.
The second place $10,000 prize went to Quebec Sports television and radio host, Pierre Rinfret. The top 20 finishers went home with cash.
"Running a tournament of this magnitude is what we always envisioned for PokerPro. We are pleased with the success of this tournament and proud of our partnership with Casino de Montreal," says Chris Halligan, CEO of PokerTek, manufacturer of the PokerPro tables. "The Québécois players have embraced automated poker, as validated by the response to this tournament."
Montreal's tournament on Tuesday was the second record broken by the property, the first being that they have the largest installation of automated poker tables in the world with 25. Both Crown Casino in Melbourne, Australia and Four Winds Casino Resort in New Buffalo Michigan have run PokerPro tournaments with 100 players.
Currently, Casino de Montreal's 100% PokerPro room offers cash games, daily Sit-and- Go tournaments, plus weekly and monthly multi-table tournaments.
< Gaming News
CASINO CITY NETWORK: Casino City | Online Casino City | Casino City TV | iGaming News | Poker Zone | Casino City Press | Casino Vendors
Casino City is an independent directory and information service free of any gaming operator's control.
Warning: You must ensure you meet all age and other regulatory requirements before entering a
Casino or placing a wager.  There are hundreds of jurisdictions in the world with Internet access and
hundreds of different games and gambling opportunities available on the Internet.
YOU are responsible for determining if it is legal for YOU to play any particular games or place any
particular wager.
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Copyright © 2002-2025 Casino City, Inc. or its affiliates.