McGill Tax Law Faculty | Stikeman Chair in Tax Law - McGill University
McGill University
Stikeman Chair in Tax Law
Faculty of Law
Enter your keywords
Main navigation
HomeTax FacultyCoursesNews & CommentaryResearchEvents
McGill.CA / Stikeman Chair in Tax Law
McGill Tax Law Faculty
Allison Christians
Professor Allison Christians is the H. Heward Stikeman Chair in the Law of Taxation at the McGill University Faculty of Law.  Her research and teaching focus on national and international tax law and policy issues, with emphasis on the relationship between taxation and economic development and on the role of government and non-government institutions and actors in the creation of tax policy norms.
She practiced tax law at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz in New York, where she focused on the taxation of domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions, spin-offs, restructurings and associated issues and transactions involving private and public companies, and at Debevoise & Plimpton in New York, where she focused mainly on private equity funds. She taught at the University of Wisconsin Law School, the University of Ottawa Faculty of Law, and Northwestern University School of Law before joining the Faculty of Law at McGill University in 2012.
You can follow her on her Tax law, politics, society and culture blog.
Nadia Rusak
Nadia Rusak, BCL/LLB'06, is a course lecturer of Taxation (PUB2 313) and of Corporate Taxation (PUB2 517) at McGill's Faculty of Law.
Nadia Rusak is a lawyer with extensive experience in Canadian and international business law, tax planning, and tax dispute resolution. Having spent over 10 years advising and defending some of the most sophisticated public companies and institutional investors operating in Canada and internationally, Nadia now devotes her practice entirely to private clients, including entrepreneurial businesses, private investment funds, individuals, families, and charitable organizations as president of Cragmore Lawyers.
She frequently collaborates with accounting firms on implementing tax plans. This includes drafting legal agreements and reorganizing companies to meet intended structuring objectives. She also manages sensitive files on behalf of accounting firms, serving as a liaison between accountant and client, to ensure that their professional services are covered by solicitor-client privilege.
Nadia is a frequent speaker at the Canadian and international tax conferences, including CTF, APFF, IFA and ABA. Nadia is also a sessional lecturer of International Taxation at the Master's Tax Program, HEC.
Robert Raizenne
Robert Raizenne is an adjunct professor at McGill's Faculty of Law.
Me Raizenne is a partner with Osler's Montréal office practising in tax law. He has extensive experience in a wide variety of transactions and tax planning matters, including cross-border and domestic mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and restructurings, corporate finance, international tax and trusts. Raizenne is also an experienced tax litigator.
A sought-after speaker and writer on tax topics, he has spoken frequently at the Canadian Tax Foundation’s Annual Conference, the Annual Conference of the Canadian Branch of the International Fiscal Association and many other professional venues.
Related Content
ITR Global Tax 50 2020-2021: Allison Christians
Professor Allison Christians has again made the International Tax Review's Top 50 list.
"Christians has strong views on what the OECD could do better, suggesting alternative solutions to the digital tax proposal, such as a third pillar, and is keen to see the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) be achieved through tax policy advancements.
Most notably, however, the tax professor posted the pillar one and pillar two blueprints on her blog in September 2020 once she discovered they had been shared between some law firms and multinational companies.
'I would not say that I leaked the documents, rather I disseminated more broadly that which had already been leaked to a select group,' Christians tells ITR."
Read the in-depth profile on ITR.
We are no. 27 on the #economia50 2018 list
Professor Christians (@profchristians) was ranked 27 in top 50 most influential sources of finance news & information in social media by #economia50 2018, as someone who shares "quality, insightful content with their followers."
Back to top
Department and University Information
H. Heward Stikeman Chair in Tax Law
Chancellor Day Hall,
3644 Peel Street
Montreal, Quebec H3A 1W9
Column 1Quick linksFaculty of Law
Law Admissions - BCL/JD
Law Admissions - graduate programs
Law Student Affairs Office
Law Career Development Office
Nahum Gelber Law Library
Focus online
Column 2Research unitsBusiness Law Platform
Centre for Human Rights & Legal Pluralism
Centre for Intellectual Property Policy
Fortier Chair in Int'l Arbitration & Commercial Law
Institute of Air & Space Law
Jean Monnet Chair in International Economic Integration
Labour Law and Development Research Laboratory
Column 3Research units (cont'd)Oppenheimer Chair in public international law
Paul-André Crépeau Centre for Private & Comparative Law
Peter MacKell Chair in Federalism
Private Justice and the Rule of Law
Research Group on Health & Law
Rule of Law and Economic Development
Wainwright Fund
X
McGill University
Copyright © 2025 McGill University
Accessibility
Cookie notice
Cookie settings
Log in