World of Pageantry, Band, Color Guard, Drum Corps and Drill Team News
Toggle navigation
Home
Forums
Calendar
Resources
Marching Band Scores
March Library
Pageantry Links
Photo Gallery
About Us
About Us
Contact
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
We cover the WEST and  the REST of the WORLD OF PAGEANTRY.... BEST!!!
The World of Pageantry
The World of Pageantry is the premier internet pageantry arts resource, covering the west coast's marching band, drum corps, drumline, color guard and drill team activities.  The Pageantry Forums, known as the Pageantry Discussion Group, is the largest such forum on the web, boasting over 8,000 members currently.
For many years the World of Pageantry was the leading west coast print media dedicated the the marching pageantry arts, but with rise of the internet it has changed with the times and become a leading internet presence and advocate for the Pageantry Arts.
We want thank Charlie Groh for the use of his outstanding photos of field performances used behind of World of Pageantry banner at the top of every page.  You can find more of Charlie's wonderful photos for sale at his website called Chashots.
Upcoming Events
There are no events listed for the 7 days.
World of Pageantry Resources
Make use of all the resources and special features the World of Pageantry has to offer.
Pageantry Forums
The Pageantry Forums, known as the Pageantry Discussion Group, is the largest such forum on the web, boasting over 8,000 members currently.
Events Calendar
View a listing a pageantry related events and competitions and add your own pageantry related events to our Events Calendar,
Marching Band Scores
You can look through our archives of Scores from local and regional competitions.
March MP3 Library
Looking for that sweepstakes winning march for your band to play, logon to our march library to listen to great march recordings.
Pageantry Links
Find links to other outstanding pageantry related internet resources.
Photo Gallery
Enjoy our archive of award winning photos from past pageantry events.
Follow Us on Social Media
Quick Links
Pageantry Forums
Events Calendar
Marching Band Scores
Pageantry Links
Global Coverage
The World of Pageantry covers the pageantry arts in the United States of America, specializing in marching bands, drum and bugle corps, color guards and drumlines on the west coast of the U.S.
© 2019 World of Pageantry. All Rights Reserved.