Luther Burbank Home and Gardens in Santa Rosa, Calif.
Luther Burbank Home & Gardens
The historic Burbank home property was given to the City of Santa Rosa by Burbank's
widow, Elizabeth, upon her death in 1977. The Luther Burbank Home & Gardens Board and
City staff cooperatively oversee and maintain the property. The site is open to the public
and its programs are staffed by volunteers.
The home and gardens are located in downtown Santa Rosa, on the corner of Santa Rosa
Avenue and Sonoma Avenue. See
the Area Map.
Luther Burbank Carriage House, now serving as Museum, Visitor Center and Gift Shop
Luther Burbank Home Property
Burbank Home. This modified Greek Revival house is where Luther Burbank lived
from 1884 to 1906. He had another home built across Tupper Street in 1906; it was removed
in the late 1960s for other development. After Burbank's death in 1926, Elizabeth moved
into this charming old cottage where she lived until her death in 1977. She made several
additions and improvements to the structure, and its present appearance and furnishings
reflect her warmth and good taste.
Carriage House. Originally a place to store carriages and horse tack, the carriage
house was renovated in 1986 as a museum. The building accommodates exhibits relating to
Burbank's life and work, the gift shop, and the tour registration desk. An original cupola
atop the building was replicated in 1989.
Greenhouse. Designed and built by Luther Burbank in 1889, this building provides
changing exhibits, and includes a replica of his office which contains many of his tools.
Seasonal Programs.
Visitors may enjoy the carriage house museum and gift shop, free of charge, during the
season from April through October, Tuesday through Sunday, 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m
Docent-led tours begin every half-hour with the last tour beginning at 3:30 p.m. The tour
includes a brief description of Luther Burbank's life, an overview of his best-known plant
developments, a look inside his greenhouse, and a walk through the Burbank home with its
original furnishings and memorabilia. A small admission fee is charged for the tour.
The Luther Burbank Home & Gardens hosts an annual holiday open house and
gift sale the first weekend in December. The buildings are decorated, refreshments
are served, and there is a small admission fee.
Group tours and community outreach programs for schools, organizations, etc. are available
by reservation only. A deposit is required. For more Information call (707) 524-5445.
Luther Burbank Greenhouse
The Story of Luther Burbank
Burbank Home and Gardens
Home Page
Return to Parks Home Page
Proudly hosted by Sonoma.net