Home - Miranda Toastmasters Club
MIRANDA TOASTMASTERSFind your voice                                     Home      News      What’s on      Speechcraft      FAQs      Members      Contact
Public SpeakingWant to improve your public speaking skills?Are you afraid of speaking in front of a group people?Are you looking to improve your leadership skills?Do you want to be able to think on your feet and answer impromptu questions without stumbling?Do you want to have fun and learn from a supportive and friendly group of people?Let Miranda Toastmasters help you If you answered 'yes' to any of these questions, Miranda Toastmasters Club could be just the place for you. We provide an friendly and supportive environment where people can learn, practice and hone public speaking and leadership skills.
Attend a meetingJoin us at a meeting to check out Toastmasters for yourself
Click here to attend a meeting
Meeting day and time2nd & 4th Tuesday - 7:00pmMiranda Toastmasters Club meets every 2nd & 4th Tuesday night of the month at 7pm.
Contact us to attend a meeting
There is no cost to attend and visitors are very welcome.
Upcoming meetingsVisitors welcomeWant to see what Toastmasters is all about?Join us at one of our upcoming meetings and see for yourself. Everyone is welcome.Arrive at 6.45pm for a 7.00pm start.25 March 2025 - Tall Tales + Master of the Toast Contests8 April 2025 - Speeches + Table Topics22 April 2025 - Hartoonian Autumn Award - 10 Pathways Speeches in one night13 May 2025 - Speeches + Table Topics
VenueDiggers Miranda RSLMeetings are held at Diggers Miranda RSL, 615 Kingsway, MirandaPublic Transport and ParkingDiggers Miranda RSL is only a few minutes walk from Miranda railway station.Car parking is available at the venue.
Learn more
We provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.
Miranda ToastmastersMiranda Toastmasters is part of Toastmasters International, a world-wide network of individuals coming together to inspire people to communicate. Toastmasters clubs provide a supportive and fun environment where you can build confidence through learning and regular practice.Where can Toastmasters take you?Our Club Club #3554, Area S2, District 70, Region 12.District 70 is in New South Wales, South of Sydney Harbour and the Parramatta River, and a line running due West across the State, and also includes the Australian Capital Territory. District 70 has almost 200 Toastmasters' clubs and over 5,000 members within its eight Divisions.Region 12 contains the clubs within Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea.Read SPEAK UP - Miranda Toastmasters' newsletter
What our members say
"
Joining Toastmasters in October 2020 has been a transformative experience for me. The skills and confidence I've gained through this journey have enabled me to speak publicly with poise and conviction. Toastmasters has truly been a catalyst for personal and professional growth, and I'm grateful for the supportive community that has encouraged and nurtured my development as a speaker and a leader.
Cathy GMember since 2020"
I lost my husband in a work place accident and I was invited to visit work sites and talk about work place safety, talking about my experience.Being a very shy person I struggled to talk to groups of people. To help overcome my shyness someone suggested I go to a Toastmasters meeting. That first meeting was in 2013 and I'm still here.I thoroughly enjoy Toastmasters. I give speeches, take on roles and enter competitions.I wanted to get more confidence so I can speak in front of a group of people and I feel by being a member of Miranda Toastmasters I have achieved this goal.I intend to keep going to Toastmasters for many years to come.Kathy TMember since 2013
"
I joined Toastmasters to develop confidence in speaking to customers with confidence, as I found I was easily flustered when speaking!Speechcraft and Toastmasters has given me good training in putting my thoughts together to a logical speech, and the atmosphere at the meetings is supportive and friendly.I have been pushed out of my comfort zone but in a positive way and I hope to continue to travel outside that zone!I have learned a great deal inn the time I have been with Toastmasters, and I look forward to the fortnightly meetings.Teresa OMember since 2021
Home    news    what's on    speechcraft    members only    contact us   Copyright 2025 Miranda Toastmasters Club, all rights reserved.