Montreal World Film Festival
The Montreal World Film
Festival
Outdoor Screenings
Press Conferences
Performers from Inner Mongolia
Festival Goers
Stephen Holt
American TV Personality NYC
2003
"Stars" Photo Exhibition
by Lois Siegel
2002
Family Motel
Premiered at the Montreal World Film
Festival 2007
A cocktail was held at
the Jello Bar August 30, 2007 at the
Montreal World Film Festival
before the premiere of the film "Family Motel,"
shot in Ottawa last
summer.
Instinct Films producer Ina Fichman; National Film Board of Canada
Producer, Ravida Din;
Director Helene Klodawsky.
Starring Nargis, Asha Jibril, and  Sagal Jibril
Award
Rendez-vous du cinéma
québécois: Alex and Ruth
Dworkin Prize for a Film that Promotes Tolerance
Screening
Museum of Modern Art, NYC, March 2008
Family Motel is one of the most important and affecting movies
I've ever taken in.
It speaks for the millions of marginalized refugees in the West
with a degree of realism and authenticity I don't think I've ever seen on film
before.
Five stars for both content and cinematic art."
Alex Shoumatoff, contributing editor,
Vanity Fair
Trailer
Photos
Jury
Attacked:
Animation at the Montreal
World Film Festival
1999
From Gargoyles to
Ant-Horses:  Animation at the
Montreal World Film Festival,
2000
Famous
Genes and Amazing Grace at Montreal Film Fest, 2001
Robert
De Niro, 26th Montreal World Film Festival, 2002
Blind
Spot, 26th Montreal World Film Festival, 2002
The
Montreal World Film Festival 2003
A
Portrait of Grief and Mourning (
For the Living and the Dead,
Kari Paljakka, Finland)
North American Premiere, 2005
The
Montreal World Film Festival 2005
Images from the
Festival
Nicholas Cage
James Woods
American Actors
1984
Absolut Warhola, directed by
Stanislaw Mucha, 80 minutes,
2001, Germany.
With humor and an affinity for people, Polish born (1970) Stanislaw Mucha traces
American pop artist Andy Warhol's family roots back to two small villages in
Eastern Europe.
Warhol's eccentric
relatives are proud their connection to him and he has become a legend. Warhol
sent some of his art work to his relatives who didn't really know what to do
with them.
"Absolut Warhola" takes us on a journey
to the grass roots of the infamous Warhol.
Mucha's other documentaries include "Die
Mitte" (The Center) and
"Mit Bubi heim ins Reich"
("Back Home to the Reich, with Bubi").
Duisburg:
Audience Award, 2001.
Mannheim Audience Award,  2001.
Berlin: Best Upcoming Director & Best Upcoming
Cinematographer from the DEFA Foundation, 2001.
Society of German Film Critics: Best Documentary,
2002.
Cool and Crazy,
directed
by
Knut Erik Jensen, 2001,
105 minutes, Norway.
This documentary focuses on a men's choir, most of whom are in their 70s.
We hear them sing, we investigate their lives, we watch as they travel to Russia
to perform for the locals.
Chicago International Film Festival, Gold Hugo,
Best Documentary.
Norwegian International Film Festival, Best
Documentary, Best Norwegian Feature Film.
El Sol del membrillo (The Quince
Tree aka The Dream of Light) directed by
Victor Erice, 1992, 133 minutes, Spain.
A slow, contemplative study of a painter at work. The Spanish Artist
Antonio Lopez Garcia
plays himself.  Filmed with the extreme care only a serious filmmaker could
achieve. Cannes Film Festival, Fipresci Award &
Jury Prize.
Embrassez Qui Vous Voudrez (See How They Run)
directed by Michel Blanc, who also plays the psychotically jealous husband in
the film.  I saw this film at the
Montreal
World Film Festival,
2002. Great
cast, including Charlotte Rampling and Jacques Dutronc. A comedy: instead of a
'ménage a trois' it's more a 'ménage a 13.'
The Experiment, directed by
Oliver Hirschbiegel, 2001, 120 minutes, Germany. The film is based on a famous
experiment conducted at Stanford University, Palo Alto, California in 1971.
Twenty-four male students participated in a psychological study of the effects
of prison life, guards versus prisoners, and the resulting power struggle. The
study was shut down after six days to avoid impending disaster.
Ice Men, directed by Thom
Best, 108 minutes, 2004, Canada.
"The Big Chill" with men.  This Canadian drama looks more like an American
film because of its slickness, strong acting, and skilled cinematography. "Ice
Men" is Best's feature directorial debut. He's better known as a Toronto
cinematographer.
As director of photography, his work includes "Men with Brooms" (2003). He was
also cinematographer for all four seasons of the North American version of the
TV series "Queer as Folk," and he directed two of the episodes himself.
Martin Cummins as Vaughn
"Ice Men" focuses on the
relationships of five men spending the weekend together at a cottage. Within a
short period of time, their lives change.
Ian Tracey as Trevor
Budget for the film was close to $1
million.
Contact:  Rick Warden, producer
World Premiere: Montreal World
Film Festival, 2004
Image et Nation Film Festival, Montreal, 2004
Atlantic Film Festival, 2004
Laundry directed by  Junichi Mori, 2001, 126 minutes, Japan.
This
charming film focuses on a young man who has suffered a brain injury. He meets
his match in a young lady who hasher own problems. Some beautiful photography,
lovely story, great acting.
The screenplay for "Laundry" received  Sundance/NHK
International Filmmakers Award.
León y Olvido, directed by
Xavier Bermúdez, 112 minutes,
2004, Spain.
Leon (Guillem
Jiménez) is a 20-year-old with Down's syndrome. When his mother dies,
his twin sister, Olvido, places him in an institution.  This doesn't work
out and Leon is given back to Olivido, who would rather get on with her life
than babysit her brother.   She tires to encourage his independence,
but this doesn't always work out as intended. Leon y Olvido is sometimes
reminiscent of Marco Bellocchio "Fists in the Pocket" whereby the dysfunctional
family begins to destroy itself. Guillem
Jiménez, who has Down's
syndrome himself, gives a wonderful and believable performance as Leon. And
there are some delightful classroom scenes with other Down's syndrome students.
Leon
(Guillem Jiménez)
Xavier
Bermúdez was able to convey exactly what he
wanted from his actors, despite the challenges this entailed.
Xavier
Bermúdez
Festival de Malaga,
Special Jury Prize, 2004
Karlovy Vary International
Film Festival:
Best Actress,
Marta Larralde
Best Director
Xavier Bermúdez
Miotte Vue
Par Ruiz, directed by Chilean Raoul Ruiz, 2001, 80 minutes, France.
The
documentary
features the work of French painter Jean Miotte as he creates a work as we
watch. His sense of composition is amazing.
Super 8 Stories by
Emir
Kusturica, 90 minutes, 2001, Serbia-Croatia. "Super 8 Stories" is frantic,
hilarious, unpredictable documentary filmmaking at its best. The film is filled
with music by Kusturica's "No
Smoking Orchestra,"  a Balkan punk band. Chicago International Film
Festival, Silver Plaque, Best Documentary.
Sweet Dreams,
directed by
Saso
Podgorsek, 110 minutes, 2001, Slovenia.  A coming of age film, circa 1970
Yugoslavia. Filled with humor and charm.
Slovene Film Festival, Vesna, Best
Feature Film, Best Screenplay, Best Actress.
©Photo by Lois Siegel
Laurie Kahn-Leavitt
Directed by
Laurie Kahn-Leavitt, 2003, 62 minutes.
The real story behind all these women freaking out over Tupperware.  A
delightful, entertaining documentary that puts the 'cult' of Tupperware and its
women into historical perspective. Were they really the first feminists...
a must-see.
Film Fanatics
Lois
Siegel's Home Page