Shawn Anderson Motivation: Empowering and Inspiring Action - Shawn Anderson
Home
Books
Speaking
Blog
Extra Mile Day
The Pledge
Extra Mile World Tour
Quotes and Claps
#ClapForSomeone
Media & Podcasts
Extra Mile Minute
Videos
Contact
Select Page
“I empower people. Let’s get you moving.”
Looking for a little inspiration?
Sign-up for Thursday’s blog.
Extra Mile Thursday!
It’s totally FREE.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Location
Subscribe
An Inspiring Speaker.
#1 Ranked Motivational Author.
An Unlimited Thinker.
Real Life Motivation. Without the Hype.
Thank you so much for stopping by.
I’m grateful for that.
So let me give it my best right now to keep our momentum going.
Yes?
I KNOW that there are 10,000+ “motivational gurus” great at talking about achieving goals, serving others, being mindful, finding purpose, living with harmony, overcoming obstacles…and living the life they love.
Lots are sayin’ it…but how many are passionately and successfully DOIN’ it?
There is ZERO pretend here.
1. I’ve WALKED across NINE countries and pedaled a bike ocean-to-ocean across the U.S. solo…twice. In total, I’ve created adventures in over 50 countries.
2. I’m the creator of the “Extra Mile Day” movement (11/1)…a day recognizing volunteer heroes who “go the extra mile” in making a difference. When I had the crazy idea in 2009 to create a special day to celebrate amazing volunteers…23 mayors participated. On 11/1/24, 516 cities made the declaration.
3. I’ve written seven books (80,000+ copies sold) and have hit #1 on Amazon in “Motivation” and “Self Help” several times.
4. I’ve reached hundreds of thousands with my speaking and writing…including a speaking tour in the Philippines attended by 20,000+ people.
5. I’m a lifetime entrepreneur (since my first gig at age 10 selling worms to fishermen)…and now I’m lucky to not worry about making money, but instead, on making a difference.
That’s me.
I know struggle.I know challenge.I know survival.
And I KNOW success.
Your type of person?
Then subscribe to Extra Mile Thursday. Every week I give it my best to write something short and sweet…and inspiring. (Go to the bottom of this website to sign-up…for FREE!)
Or better yet.
Order a book. If you order through this website…I’ll see your order before it goes out…and inscribe something personal to you.
And one more thing…
I am really good at answering emails.
With much gratitude for you being here now…
S.
Books
From a #1 Ranked Motivational and Self-Help Author…
The Four Fibs
Amicus 101
LESSONS FROM A. FRIEND
Soar to the Top
Extra Mile America
Creator of Extra Mile Day ( 11/1 )
{
“If you want to create a life you love…
never stop believing in dreams and never stop going the extra mile.”
– SHAWN ANDERSON
Extra Mile Thursday Blogs
Blog #684: Magical Life Fixes
by Ana | Mar 20, 2025 | Blog PostMagical Life Fixes - Blog 684 by Shawn AndersonMagical life fixes are simple shifts in mindset or action that can create powerful change. In today’s fast-paced world, it’s easy to feel stuck or uninspired. However, sometimes one new idea is all it takes to turn things...
Blog #683: The Frog at My Door
by Ana | Mar 13, 2025 | Blog PostThe Frog at My Door - Blog 683 by Shawn AndersonPersonal growth lessons from nature often appear when we least expect them. One quiet moment can become a life teacher—if we’re paying attention. In this short but meaningful reflection, Shawn Anderson shares how an...
Blog #682: When IT Hits the Fan
by Ana | Mar 6, 2025 | Blog PostWhen It Hits the Fan - Blog 682 by Shawn AndersonWhen life hits the fan, how do you respond? In this compelling post, Shawn Anderson explores the tension between uncertainty and personal power. “When It Hits the Fan” is more than a title—it's a call to choose your...
« Older Entries
Read more…
Looking for a little  inspiration?
Sign-up for Thursday's blog.
Extra Mile Thursday!
It's totally FREE.
First Name
Last Name
Email
Location
Subscribe
[fts_twitter twitter_name=ToShawnAnderson tweets_count=2 cover_photo=yes stats_bar=no show_retweets=yes show_replies=no]





© Shawn Anderson 2021 All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Copyright
Pin It on Pinterest