Home - Roganstown Hotel
Skip to content
Rooms
Special Offers
Best Price Promise
Food & Drink
Wellness
Gallery
Environmental Policy
Golf
Weddings
Meetings & Events
What's Nearby
Gift Vouchers
Contact
Book Now
Always Book Direct
Best Rate Guarantee
At Roganstown Hotel & Country Club we always encourage our guests to book directly on our website to ensure they are always getting the best value and the best rates available.
Always €10 Less
Our Bed and Breakfast rate is always €10 less than on any other website.
No Deposit Needed
You pay during your stay,  The only exceptions to this are advance purchase rate plans which are charged in full at time of booking.
Free to cancel
Even the best laid plans can change. When you book direct you have the option to cancel your reservation up to 4pm on the day prior to arrival with no penalty (excludes advance purchase rates).
Room Priority
We will automatically give priority to guests who book on our official website. That means if we have a room upgrade available as a direct booker you're more likely to get it!
Exclusive Packages
We offer a variety of exclusive packages available only when you book on this website. Including dining, golf and spa.
Book Now
Your Country House in Dublin
Roganstown Hotel & Country Club
Play Golf
Tee times
offer
Get Married
See packages
Exclusive
Stay The Night
Book Now
offer
Gift Vouchers
Buy Now
Exclusive
hotel Near dublin Airport
Luxury Hotel in Swords
Enjoy the peace and tranquillity of a private estate and country club in Dublin. Ideal for families, friends, golf enthusiasts and seekers of relaxation. Our resort offers an escape from the city while giving you plenty to be entertained. Why not enjoy our on-site leisure centre and spa if golf isn’t your thing?  Come together at the end of your day at O’Callaghan’s Bar & Patio, the perfect place to gather and reflect on your day. Book here on our website for exclusive packages and for our best rate guarantee.
Exclusive Offers
Rooms
With 52 beautifully appointed guest rooms; you can soak up the stunning course views and retire to comfortable, inviting beds for a wonderful night’s sleep.
Stay the night
Golf
Roganstown Hotel & Country Club is home to two 18-hole acclaimed championship golf courses, Swords Open Golf Course and the Christy O’Connor designed Roganstown Championship Course.
Tee Off
Spring Sale
Relax this Spring with an overnight stay at Roganstown Hotel. Enjoy a luxurious guestroom, a welcome drink on arrival, a full Irish breakfast the following morning, complimentary Wi-Fi, free parking, and access to our leisure facilities.
Book Now
Weddings
Our beautifully restored manor house is one of the most romantic destinations in Dublin. The perfect private location for your perfect day.
Say Yes
Meetings & Events
We offer conference spaces from groups 2 to 350 delegates. We have an extensive bar food menu available, with a wide selection of sandwiches, salads and hot dishes. Larger groups can avail of a set menu or buffet in our restaurant, or in the summer months, we can arrange BBQ’s on one of our outside terraces. Our spaces are flexible and can accommodate break out spaces if required.
Get in Touch
Spoilt for choice
Eat & Drink
See our restaurants
Relax & Enjoy
Spa & leisure
Book a treatment
tHE PERFECT PLACE
Families
Let's explore
The best rate guaranteed
Always book directly on our website
Save €10 per night
Always €10 cheaper per night - guaranteed.
ROOM PRIORITY
Room upgrades when available.
No deposit needed
You'll pay during your stay.
Free cancellation
Cancel your reservation up to 4pm on the day prior to arrival
Book Now
How can we help?
Frequently Asked Questions
What is the check-in time at Roganstown Hotel & Country Club?
Check-in at Roganstown Hotel & Country Club is at 4.00pm.
What is the check-out time at Roganstown Hotel & Country Club?
Check-out at Roganstown Hotel & Country Club is 12.00 Midday.
What food & drink options are available at Roganstown Hotel & Country Club?
At Roganstown Hotel & Country Club we have McLoughlin’s Restaurant and O’Callaghan’s Bar. McLoughlin’s has been an AA Rosette award-winning restaurant for a number of years and has developed a strong reputation for serving modern Irish dishes using locally sourced, top-quality produce.O’Callaghan’s is the ideal spot for a relaxed lunch or a quick snack or pastry and coffee. In the evening we have an extensive bar food menu, great cocktails, and a selection of fine whiskies.
More FAQs
#roganstownhotel[email protected]Swords, Co. Dublin, K67 P2E4+353 (1) 843 3118
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Book A Room
Cookies –House History  – Frequently Asked Questions – Privacy – Gift Vouchers – Stay, Park & Fly – Air Crew Offers – Careers – Environment Policy
Website made with love by Sprint Digital
Choose Your Dates
ARRIVAL
Sat
07
Sep
2019
DEPARTURE
Sun
08
Sep
2019
Check Dates
5 Reasons To Book Direct
Always €10 cheaper than any other site
Complimentary drink
Room priority
Free cancellation
Pay later