BBC Sport - Formula 1, 2011, The Canadian Grand Prix - Qualifying
Homepage     Accessibility links   Skip to content   Accessibility Help       BBC Account        Notifications         Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live               More menu           Search BBC              Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food        Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live         Close menu
BBC Sport
Formula 1
HomeEpisodes
Main content
Sorry, this episode is not currently available
The Canadian Grand Prix - Qualifying
Formula 1 2011
Jake Humphrey presents as the Formula 1 season rolls into Montreal for the Canadian Grand Prix, with commentary from Martin Brundle and David Coulthard.
Show more
Jake Humphrey presents as the Formula 1 season rolls into Montreal for the Canadian Grand Prix. It has been Sebastian Vettel and Red Bull's year so far, and his RB7 car has given him a real edge in the title race. Great Britain's Lewis Hamilton is in hot pursuit, and he has fond memories from last year's race, where he took pole position ahead of Mark Webber in a dramatic and thrilling qualifying session. Hamilton snatched pole with the very last lap of the session to break Red Bull's run at the front of the grid that had stretched for seven straight races. With commentary from Martin Brundle and David Coulthard.
Show less
2 hours
Last on
Sat 11 Jun 2011
17:15
BBC One
More episodes
Previous
The Canadian Grand Prix - Practice Two—2011
Next
The Canadian Grand Prix - Part One—2011
See all episodes from Formula 1
Credits
Role
Contributor
Presenter
Jake Humphrey
Commentator
Martin Brundle
Commentator
David Coulthard
Producer
Richard Carr
Participant
Eddie Jordan
Broadcast
Sat 11 Jun 2011
17:15
BBC One
BBC Sport: Formula 1
The latest Formula 1 news plus live results, standings, video, blogs and analysis.
Get the latest Formula 1 news from the BBC Sport site
Related Content
Similar programmes
By genre:
Sport > Formula OneSport > Motorsport
By format:
Performances & Events
Home
Explore the BBC      Home            News            Sport            Weather            iPlayer            Sounds            Bitesize     CBeebies     CBBC     Food         Home     News     Sport     Business     Innovation     Culture     Travel     Earth     Video     Live              Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us   Copyright © 2025 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.   Read about our approach to external linking.