How Joe & Ben Weider became the Founding Fathers of Bodybuilding
How Joe and Ben Weider
Became the Founding Fathers of Bodybuilding
This article tells about the early years of Joe and Ben Weider; how they
started in bodybuilding; how they built the business; and much more. It
also responds to the accusations against Weider by Alan Klein. The article
was written by Tim Hoxha, and was featured in Flex Magazine, September 1995
issue.
If you think that Canada's contribution to sports stops with hockey, you've got another thing coming. In the 193Os, a slightly built boy named Joe Weider and his younger brother Ben couldn't make it home from school through their tough section of Montreal without being beaten up or picked on by neighborhood hooligans. An ad by Charles Atlas caught their eye; they were sick of being '9O-pound weaklings'; and they tried his calisthenics program. When that didn't do much to make either their muscles bigger or the bullies
go away, they turned to Strength & Health, a magazine published by
strongman-competition promoter Bob Hoffman.
As they grew into young men, the brothers set about building
strong bodies with a set of barbells made with parts found in a junkyard.
They soon discovered that lifting weights made more than their biceps and
triceps bigger. It also built self esteem, which, as it turned out, was
the real key to beating bullies. They didn't realize it then, but this
passion for exercise marked the beginning of a career for both of them,
one that would ultimately impact the lives of millions and launch an
international sport.
The Early years
By age 18, Joe did indeed become the strongest
kid in the neighborhood, a feat that led him to win Quebec's weightlifting
competition, the most important of that era. Twelve year old Ben was not
far behind in his enthusiasm for weightlifting.
"Developing my body by lifting weights and applying intelligent
nutrition Concepts to my life became something of a holy quest," Joe remembers.
But improving his mind and physique wasn't enough. "Sooner or later," he says, "it
becomes necessary for people to do something that they consider important,
and I felt it necessary to pass on the information I had learned to others."
Joe realized the impact those early muscle magazines had made on him,
even though he'd discovered that the information they provided was often
incorrect. He dreamed of publishing his own fitness newsletter to promote the
physical and psychological value of working out. But the Weiders' mother wasn't
impressed by her elder son's Conviction.
"The best thing for you to do is learn a trade," she admonished,"instead of
growing up to be a bum." Mrs. Weider was so distraught she sought a fortune
teller's advice, who predicted Joe would be a success and advised her
to let the boy follow his dream. Mrs. Weider heeded the counsel, perhaps
believing that a greater power guided her Son's inspired, if unusual, actions.
So with a fortune teller's blessing, seven dollars in his pocket and
a mimeograph machine, Joe began publishing YOUR PHYSIQUE, a
12-page instructional magazine. His first subscribers were fitness
buffs who attended strongman competitions in Montreal, and
people who had written letters to the editor in Strength & Health, to
whom Joe had Sent penny postcards asking them to accept a two dollar
yearly subscription.
The strategy worked. By 1943, the circulation of 'Your Physique'
reached across Canada. So many readers wrote in for information
on weight equipment that Joe began his own equipment mail order business
with help from brother Ben, who had recently returned home from duty in the
Canadian army.
There was such a community of weight training devotees by 1946 that the
Weiders organized the first Mr. Canada contest. This event was different
from the exploitive carnival and vaudeville contests of the time, in which
participants had to perform such stunts as bending steel bars or biting
through steel. The Weiders wanted a contest that was respectful of the
individual and of the discipline of lifting, and so developed a sport
by having competitors pose in front of judges to determine who had the
most balanced muscular build.
"After that first contest, I understood the depth of interest people had
in strength and bodybuilding", Ben recalls. "I figured that since there was
so much interest in Montreal, there must be equal interest around the world".
The following year, Ben visited Europe to spark interest in the growing
sport of bodybuilding. (He eventually traveled the globe and established
the International Federation of Bodybuilders, which has grown to include
more than 150 member nations.)
At the same time that Ben was promoting bodybuilding as a sport, Joe was
persuading a large distribution company to carry 'You Physique' on its
newsstands. Circulation rocketed to 50,000 copies a month and orders for
weight equipment multiplied. To better manage publishing and production
demands, Joe left Canada for the East Coast of the United States, while
Ben remained in Montreal to oversee the IFBB, a task he continues to perform
to this day.
No Smooth Sailing
From a small, shabby warehouse in Brooklyn, New York, Joe established a magazine
empire. By 1952, 'Your Physique' reached record sales levels and prompted
Weider to distribute 20 separate magazines with a total circulation of about
25 million readers. Joe Weider was on the verge of his 30th birthday and
already a millionaire.
Then troubled waters hit. The Weider's distribution company was dismantled
in a buyout, leaving Joe with no distribution for his products as well
as an unpaid $2.3 million debt. To save the company, he quickly cut back to
publishing his first successful vehicle, 'Your Physique', which he renamed
Muscle Builder.
It reached a respectable 80,000 monthly circulation by 1965, allowing the
Weiders to focus their energies on bolstering the sport of bodybuilding. The
sport was losing many of its top competitors, who were force to take jobs
as bouncers, bodyguards and professional wrestlers because they couldn't
make a living in the sport of their choice. By increasing contest incomes,
the Weiders hoped to keep both veterans and rising champions in the sport.
They subsequently created the Mr. Olympia contest to showcase bodybuilder's
top talent in the hope of attracting lucrative television and business
contracts that would support the fledgling sport. Yet the deals didn't
materialize. In the mid-'60s, advertisers still considered bodybuilding
a cult sport practiced by 'muscleheads', and having little mainstream
appeal.
Building a Dream
How to move bodybuilding from cult to mainstream? First, Joe moved his
American operations to sunny California, home to the body conscious and
hub of the bodybuilding subculture. Then the Weiders stepped up the
educational approach to bodybuilding, filling every article in their publications
with hands on information readers could utilize to improve their bodies and
mind. Still, they needed a spokesman who would be a living, breathing symbol
of the virtues of the sport. And they found it in a young, charismatic
Austrian champion named Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The Weiders moved Schwarzenegger to California in 1969, where they paid him
$100 a week to write about his training and diet in 'Muscle Builder'. Joe also
took the young bodybuilder under his wing by managing his daily training
schedule and tutoring him in real estate investments, media relations and the
arts. Joe even loaned Schwarzenegger his favorite three paintings to
decorate a new apartment. "Five years later, I tried to give them back, but
Joe said 'Keep them; they're yours,'". Schwarzenegger has said in interviews.
In return, Schwarzenegger told readers about the benefits of using Weider
supplements and equipment. Soon, Schwarzenegger personable manner, wit and charm
captivated audiences and helped to dispel the notion that big muscles equated
with little brains. "When Arnold did the talk shows," says Robert Kennedy,
publisher of Toronto based 'Musclemag International', "people realized that
this was a guy who made sense, and made us laugh too. They liked him."
The release of the motion picture Pumping Iron in 1977 served not
only to make Schwarzenegger a household name but helped boost the sport itself.
For the first time, the general public had a bodybuilder to admire. By the
early 1980s, bodybuilding and the healthy lifestyle associated with it were
ingrained in the public consciousness, thanks in no small part to the
Weiders' marketing skills.
By drawing a stronger line between bodybuilding and fitness, the Weiders,
through their growing publishing efforts, have been able to bring the spirit
of fitness to an ever widening readership in 17 countries: 'Muscle Builder'
evolved into the 1.7 million circulation magazine Muscle & Fitness,
attracting the general bodybuilding and fitness fan; Shape, a
publication devoted to women's health and fitness, was launched; Flex
became the journal for hardcore and professional bodybuilders; and Men's
Fitness was created as a health and lifestyle periodical. The corporation
that publishes the magazines also produces vitamins and food supplements.
Combined, the two businesses create products available in some 60 countries
and gross nearly $1 billion a year.
The success of their publishing efforts and products has made it possible
for the Weiders to realize that goal they sought years ago: to make bodybuilding
lucrative for the athletes and recognized as a sport. Today, success as a
bodybuilder often attracts greater attention from the public at large. Consider
the multi million dollar film status of Schwarzenegger; the respect eight time
Mr. Olympia winner Lee Haney has garnered; the television achievements of the
very inspirational Lou Ferrigno; and the prolific career of author / product
representative / actress Rachel McLish, the first Ms. Olympia.
The list of successful bodybuilders is extensive; gone are the days when
being a bodybuilder meant you could cut your destiny off at being a bouncer.
Joe Weider himself contracts, on average, 20 athletes who perform a variety
of jobs within the company, from generating articles to endorsing products
and representing the Weider name.  The overall expenditure on these contracts
exceeds well over $1 million.
Breaking Down Barriers
As a result of the Weiders' strong beliefs in the concept of liberty and
equality or perhaps because of them, the brothers have done their share
to open the sport to all people, notably, women and ethnic minorities. By
putting women bodybuilders on the cover of their magazines, writing articles
about them and promoting women's competitions, the Weiders have made the image
of strong women acceptable to society at large and marketable to boot. ESPN
and other cable contracts have brought both men's and women's competitions
into millions of living rooms across North America.
When Joe and Ben created their first bodybuilding competitions way back in
the 1940s, they also broke race taboos that permeated American culture in
general and American sports in particular. "The Weiders liberalized bodybuilding
at a time when black athletes were shunned from competition," explains Leroy
Colbert, the first black Mr. America. "Before that, the competitions were
very prejudiced and unfair, and if you were black, you were not allowed to
win. But when Joe and Ben began organizing, they said 'If you're the best,
you're going to win. We don't care what color you are.'" By opening the
door for black and Hispanics in bodybuilding, Colbert maintains, the Weiders
were the first to apply true sportsmanship to bodybuilding.
A Sporting Revolution
However, the most dramatic of the Weider's contributions has been to athletic
training, which they revolutionized. "During the 1950s, when we first
popularized bodybuilding and weight training, bodybuilding as a basis to
build strength for sport was rejected 100%," explains Ben.  Experts of the
time believed the weightlifting left athletes muscle bound and uncoordinated.
So vehement and numerous were the Weiders' critics that scientists would
not write articles for their magazines. Even Charles Atlas told Joe he was
'an idiot' for selling barbells to build strength, Ben remembers. Despite this,
the Weiders persevered. They created the 'Weider Triangle of Peak Performance',
based on exercise technique, nutrition and bodybuilding, to enhance athletic
performance in activities like running, swimming and cycling. With help from
Leroy Colbert, they also created speed training programs to develop fast
twitch muscle fibers aimed at increasing speed for specific sports. "We
investigated and assessed all the training methods available and compiled them
into one catalgue," Joe explains.
The catalogue, widely accepted by the sporting community and by the numerous
doctors, researchers and scientists who now regularly contribute to all
Weider publications, is nothing short of the bible for the fitness revolution
in our culture. "The Weiders have helped millions of people, including a generation
of bodybuilders," Schwarzenegger has stated.
On the nutrition front, the Weiders' development of vitamin and supplement
programs has been key to benefiting both athletes and nonathletes. "In 1950,
it was against the medical and coaching communities thinking to use vitamins
and supplements," says Ben. But in this area too the opinions of many athletes,
doctors and scientists have swung in favor of the Weider' approach. Take the
example of Dr. Linus Pauling, who was a Nobel Prize recipient for his work
on vitamins' effects on the body. He argued that supplements are a nutritional
requirement, especially for athletes striving for the highest level of athletic
efficiency.
As far back as the 1940s, the Wieders have stressed the link between the mind
and body for optimum health and fitness. "The principles of the Weider lifestyle
stand for education of the whole person: body, mind and spirit," says Joe.
For the Weiders, 'total fitness' depends upon following principles that
enable us to effectively interact with others.
The Weiders were also ahead of their time in waging campaign against the
tobacco and alcohol industries. As early as in the 1930s, the brothers
were educating readers about the pitfalls of both addictions, an endeavor that,
according to Ben, became a permanent policy. In fact, it was under Ben's
direction that the IFBB reprinted a paper by the Executive Health Report on
the dangers of smoking to motivate both the layman and the athlete to
live a healthier and more productive life. So committed are the Weiders
to this message that they not only devote editorial pages in their publications
to informing readers about smoking and alcohol dangers but they refuse to
accept what could be very profitable advertising revenue from the billion
dollar tobacco and alcohol industries.
The Mechanics of Success
As pacesetters in the sports business industry, the Wieders have built an
interdependent group of companies that sell more than 100 bodybuilding and
fitness related products, making the Weider name synonymous with health
and fitness. How did they do it?
Corporate analysts praise the Wieders for the entrepreneurial skill; even
the 'Wall Street Journal' has lauded them for the organization of their
management team, their marketing tactics and their high productivity. The
Weiders are ranked among the tip five in the 'best of the best' list of
300 executives compiled by the Peak Performance Center of California.
High company standards spark the Weiders' success. For example, at the
Weiders' food supplement headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah, they
employ leading specialists in research and development, as well as consult
with a team of outside experts to further guarantee that their supplements
and vitamins meet the highest standards. As a result, Toronto based professor
of sports medicine Dr. Mauro DiPasquale counts Joe Weider as "one of the
most responsible supplement manufacturers."
Aided by a keen executive team that includes Michael Carr, Richard Bizzaro,
Eric Weider and David Obey, the Weiders keep honing new market strategies.
In the mid-1980s, they bought a Los Angeles based maker of high energy
nutrition bars. They also have phased out the long standing mail order
business in favor of selling Weider products in retail stores throughout
North America. Fiannly, the company uses a 'synergistic' approach to
promotion, placing subscription ads for their publications inside video and
equipment items. The thought is that by promoting health and fitness, interest
will be generated in products. In turn, using the products and being involved
in bodybuilding as a sport spurs interested in the magazines.
False Accusations
Despite the brothers' business and financial success, or perhaps because of it,
they have been criticized. In 'Little Big Man' an academic critique of the
Weider organization, sports sociologist Alan Klein accuses the Weiders of
conspiring to control the organization and competition level of bodybuilding,
the marketing and sales of products and the ideology of the sport. "They
have a monopoly." Klein writes.
Unfortunately for Klein and his reputation as a scholar, his research is anemic,
at best. His arguments are based on hearsay evidence given by unnamed
individuals.  Klein's claims that the Weiders dictate the organizational and
competitive levels of the sport rest on the assumption that Ben Weider
processes, like a king, absolute power within the IFBB as its president.
However, Ben is but a member, albeit a founding one, of a democratically
elected governing body comprised of affiliates in 156 countries.
"If they want to vote someone else in," Ben states unequivocally, "they can
vote me out." What's more, federation members vote on proposals, which
effectively negate any claims that the president runs the IFBB with
uncontested power.
Nevertheless, Ben does not deny that the IFBB oversees a 'monopoly' in the
dictionary definition of the term, since the organization functions like
another other recognized sports federation that regulates and coordinates
a sport. The General Association of Sports Federations (GASF) grants
authority to the IFBB just as it does to entities like the International
Gymnastics Federation. Having another group organize and supervise
bodybuilding would be like having a group other than the International
Olympic Committee (IOC) put on the Olympic games.
Klein also charges that the Weider control the ideology of the sport.
However, Klein never defines what he considers to be the 'ideology of the
sport' nor dies he outline what 'ideology' the Weiders are purported to
preach. The Weiders do instruct readers to build muscle, strength and
stamina. Most coaches who are aware of the principles of physiology
and performance offer their athletes the same instruction.
Another of Klein's charges is that the Weiders have a monopoly on bodybuilding
as an industry. He is not the only one to have claimed this, which means he
is not the only one to be wrong. In 1990, two separate court rulings dismissed
an antitrust suit filed by Twin Laboratories, Inc., that charged Joe Weider
with blocking competitors from selling supplements by not allowing them
advertising space in either 'Muscle & Fitness' or 'Flex'. The appeals court
judge in fact noted that Weider name a "responsible and legitimate decision
in refusing ad space to Twin Labs," remarking that the plaintiff "is not a
90-pound weakling in whose face Weider kicked sand. Rather, it is a muscular
competitor who is complaining about the competitive process."
When reviewing charges by Klein and his ilk, it's important to realize that the
Weider Corporation does not control the flow of information. In Canada alone,
no fewer than nine different bodybuilding magazines are sold. Simply put,
the existence of many independent publishing groups means that no one magazine
can be recognized as the 'canon' even by dedicated enthusiasts. "It is a free
market," notes Robert Kennedy of MuscleMag International. "Anybody can
sell magazines, supplements or weight equipment."
Klein has also contended that the roles of Joe and Ben in the business and
sport of bodybuilding overlap and thus create a conflict of interest. "Joe
Weider can make or break a career," Klein maintains. He argues that a star
bodybuilder who appears in Flex or wins an IFBB meet can't promote a
competitor's product because if he does, the iFBB will shun him.
"Klein is completely prejudiced, or he lacks the facts," Ben says bluntly.
"There is no way the IFBB allows its sport to be involved with business.
Bodybuilding is a sport, and we keep it as one."
Take the example of Lee Haney, Ben notes, who once endorsed Weider products,
but then signed a contract with a competitor. "Because Haney endorsed someone
else's products," Ben says, "they said he would never win another Mr.
Olympia contest. P.S.:  Haney won."
"There are new stars coming up all the time and no reason why people shouldn't
progress in the sport," notes competing publisher Kennedy. Kennedy says that
since he often oversees articles written about up and coming champions, he
knows firsthand that success in the sport is not controlled by the Weiders.
He adds that bodybuilders who work for Weider are on contracts that allow
them to run their own seminars, sell their own merchandise or endorse clothing
lines from other companies.
Klein also charges that the Weiders "indirectly influence the outcomes" of
competitions through judging that "can be manipulated to fit a standard the
Weiders want by selecting judges who agree with the Weider philosophy
of bodybuilding." This is allegedly done in order to ensure that highly
marketable athletes will win, which will allow them to sell more magazines
and merchandise for the company. But again, Klein has apparently failed to
research the reality: There are hundreds of qualified judges within the
IFBB who are selected by a panel of IFBB officials.
"There is only one way to face a contest," Ben says. "You approach the
nine judges and say, 'I am president of the IFBB, and if you guys
want to continue being judges, you're going to vote my way. I don't want
Lee Haney to win, you vote for my new man.' How long do you think that is
going to stay a secret? How quickly do you think my life's work, 50 years
of work, would be destroyed?"
Klein's speculation does not define the 'standard' or 'philosophy' the Weiders
supposedly use to 'influence' competitions. Such a definition would be
impossible anyway. Consider the significant physical differences between former
Mr. Olympias. Three time winner Frank Zane is white, 5'7" and relatively
muscular; eight time champion Lee Haney is African American, 6' and extremely
massive.
Like any other federation, the IFBB does have a set of guidelines; bodybuilders
must possess muscularity, definition, size and symmetry. Ben suggests that
the Weider philosophy literally mean the 'Weider lifestyle' or 'total fitness,'
not a standard by which judges can base decisions. Every IFBB judges, Ben
asserts, votes according to his or her conscience.
Klein contradicts his statements that the Weiders "indirectly influence" the
outcomes of competitions in his argument concerning women. He reports that
Ben is "really opposed to overly muscular women," yet in the next breath
he observes that the overwhelming number of female champions "keep pushing
the edges of that envelope." Using logic, if Ben 'indirectly influences'
judges, why do 'overly muscular women' continue to win? In the end,
judges must select winners based on their own interpretations of muscularity,
proportion and symmetry.
Several policies ensure the credibility of the IFBB judicial process. First,
to eliminate bias, the highest and the lowest score of each competitor is
dropped. Second, Ben instructs judges to 'look at an athlete from his
neck down'. Forget about who he is. Judge him by his physique'. Ben never
attends prejudging because judges usually narrow down the field at that time.
If a tie between two or more athletes exists, then the judges make a final
decision during the evening presentation.
"I have never, ever, ever expressed my preferences to any judges as to who
should win and who shouldn't," Ben states. Leaders within the sport back
up Ben's assertions. "Anyone can win," says former Mr. Universe Mohamed
Makkaway. "Bodybuilding is like gymnastics or figure skating, not
everyone agrees with the results." Adds Frank Zane, "The only person who
doesn't disagree with the judges is the winner."
To the Future
Criticism aside, the Weiders are the undisputed pioneers of bodybuilding,
whose guiding missionary zeal has turned a once marginalized activity into
a competitive and mainstream sport, one that may well number among the
Olympic competitions one day. In 1995, for example, bodybuilding moved one
step closer towards IOC recognition when it was one of the events
participating officially at the Pan American Games in Argentina. But perhaps
most important has been the Weiders' impact on the health and well being of
millions on nonathletes: "Ours is not simply a sport, it is a lifestyle,"
Ben explains. "This is our contribution, our life and our dedication."