Lynne Cohen Foundation
About Us
The SEAM
Kickin Cancer
Peony Project
Events Calendar
Tribute Funds
Press
DONATE
About UsThe SEAMKickin CancerPeony ProjectEvents CalendarTribute FundsPress
Education. Connection. Community
DONATE
Support the Cause
donate →
Reflecting on 2024
view our end of year summary →
Series for Education &Awareness in Medicine
Explore →
Lynne Cohen Foundation Marketplace
Shop for Good →
Our Mission
Learn More →
Kickin' Cancer 5K & 10K
Learn More →
WHAT WE DOThe Lynne Cohen Foundation serves ALL women facing increased risk for ovarian and breast cancers. With education programs and comprehensive preventive care clinics, we arm these women and their families with the knowledge, tools, and clinical support they need to take action early, survive, and thrive. Expanding preventive care access in marginalized BIPOC communities, in particular, has been a part of our mission since day 1. Over the past 20+ years, Lynne Cohen Foundation Preventive Care Clinics have provided free testing and clinical services to thousands of at-risk women who would otherwise not have had access to these resources. We are honored to continue expanding the availability of preventive care to all who need it.
Learn more
OUR CLINICS
Clinics
Lynne Cohen Project for Women with Increased Risk for Cancer at Langone Medical Center
Lynne Cohen Project for Women with Increased Risk for Cancer at Bellevue Medical Center
Lynne Cohen & Georgia Cord Preventive Care Clinic for Women’s Cancers at USC Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center
Learn more
Education
Educational opportunities range from the clinic to the living room, and arm you with the knowledge, tools and insights needed to feel aware, safe, and supported.
Learn more
Prevention
Our Preventive Care Clinics house multi-disciplinary teams of doctors and specialists dedicated to assessing your risk, implementing a management plan, and supporting you along the way.
Learn more
Community
The Lynne Cohen Foundation Tribute Funds offer individuals and families a unique and personal way to honor and remember our loved ones affected by ovarian and breast cancer.
Learn more
“I always strived to be a best friend, no matter how great or how crummy my day was. When I look back, what matters most is that I was there for the people I loved.”-LYNNE COHEN (1944-1998)
Watch The Full Video
Kickin’ Cancer!At Kickin’ Cancer!®, it’s all about getting sweaty for the cause, making new friends, and celebrating life.
Learn more & Register
The Series for Education & Awareness in Medicine The Series for Education and Awareness in Medicine (The SEAM) is the Lynne Cohen Foundation's educational arm. Here you will find key information on developments in women's public health, news from stakeholders in the cancer research community, and practical wellness advice grounded in more than 20 years of medical expertise from clinical experts.
Join the Conversation
SHOP FOR GOODIntroducing the Lynne Cohen Foundation Marketplace, a hub of purposeful shopping for a brighter, cancer-free future. Every item in the marketplace is powered by a women-owned business, and, when you shop here, up to 80% of your purchase directly contributes to Lynne Cohen Foundation Preventive Care Clinics.
Visit the Marketplace
Generation Love Delilah Crepe Blazer$305
Apothenne 9 oz Embodiment Collection Candle $38.00
Sammy + Nat Logan Set in Black Iris (Navy)$45
Beatrice Valenzuela Coral Sandalia$275
Subscribe
Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
Home
What We Do
Our Clinics
Image
Data
Quote
Video
Events & Orgs
Marketplace
Newsletter
info@lcfocr.org
Hours
AboutDonateFundraiseEventsTribute-FundsEducationOur HistoryPressPrivacy Policy
info@lcfocr.org | 1112 Montana Ave, Suite 861, Santa Monica CA 90403
Site by Ampersand Collective