Homepage - Grassroots Solutions
About Us
Services
Practice Areas
Insights
How Can We Help?
Strategy driven. People powered. Change minded.
We are an engagement strategy and evaluation firm committed to building healthy, just, and equitable communities.
About Us
Our Services
Engagement Strategy
Strategy, Program and Campaign Design
Strategic Planning
Landscape Research and Assessments
Our clients are impatient for justice and equitable communities. So are we.
Grassroots Solutions answers that impatience with a purpose-built practice that’s grounded in our first-hand knowledge of civic engagement and power building.
Three factors define our approach:
We know how to get stuff done
Deep knowledge of our practice areas—the landscapes, players, funders and levers—means our clients can be incisive in how they shape and achieve their visions.
We’re able to support clients as they build thriving organizations, programs and power because we’ve been in those leadership positions ourselves.
National perspective, state strength
Grassroots Solutions knows how to build power and leadership in states because we’ve done it. Being strategically located across the US—along with our experience in DC—offers tremendous advantages to our clients.
We’re not afraid of hard
Sometimes the hard conversation is the right one. We progress with our clients through complex problems and environments to find equitable and effective approaches that meet their goals.
Purposeful Evaluation
Program and Strategy Evaluation
Organizational Capacity Assessment
Landscape Research and Assessment
Strategy Design
In our hands, evaluation is purposeful.
It is leverage that unsticks people and programs when facing complex social problems. It supports building community power and tackling oppression.
Inclusivity
We collect and analyze data collaboratively, use straightforward language, and strive to ensure those effecting—and those affected by—the program being evaluated are centered.
Practitioner’s fluency
We know how to design and execute a campaign, run an advocacy organization, and navigate complex social problems. In other words, we’ve done the work we’re evaluating.
Strategic learning
Our work sits at the intersection of strategy, learning and evaluation where each of the three facets fuels the others, amplifying our clients’ impact.
Comfort with complexity
Progress often happens in spaces that are new or evolving, where there’s not an abundance of proven models. These are the moments where we’re frequently called in when a matter is complex and dynamic.
Coaching & Advising
Emerging and Existing Leaders
Individual and Institutional Philanthropists
As an outgrowth of our work in Evaluation and Engagement Strategy, we work with select clients in an advisory role.
Being invited to advise or coach is a privilege. Here’s a view into our offerings.
One-to-One Coaching
Provides an independent, confidential ear to listen, decipher and problem-solve with individual leaders to help them be most effective in their work-lives and organizations. We approach the role as a simpatico, seasoned and expert peer for those who often have limited outlets for such important conversations.
Ongoing Strategic Advising
Typically advisor-to-leadership team: the advisor, an issue expert who knows the landscape intimately, serves as an objective partner outside the organization’s day-to-day. We enable leadership to cut to the chase at key strategic points, so the organization moves more seamlessly, expeditiously and effectively.
Donor Advising
A natural outgrowth of career-long involvement in our practice areas. We know what work needs to be done, and where funding would be the lever that will effect the transformative good our clients envision. Matching donors to need is among the most gratifying work we do.
Our Practice Areas
Committed to building healthy, just and equitable communities, we also have three specialty Practice Areas: Healthy Democracy, Economic Justice & Climate Crisis.
To each, we bring passion and knowledge of the landscapes, players, funding and the levers by which change happens.
For all, we’re grounded in the understanding and dismantling of systems of racism, gender inequity and oppression.
Healthy Democracy
We have yet to realize the promise of a truly healthy and equitable democracy, particularly for people of color and the economically disadvantaged. Through our work in civic engagement and community power building, we expand the circle of participation and foster systemic reform to allow historically excluded communities to have a powerful voice in our democracy.
Climate Crisis
Climate crisis is an existential threat whose impact is unfairly shouldered by frontline communities. While the climate crisis affects everyone, our vigilance focuses action on the people most affected.
Economic Justice
We recognize that economic inequality is the result of policy choices, disproportionately impacting low-income neighborhoods, women and communities of color. We seek to alleviate structural barriers, building a more equitable future for everyone.
An open invitation
We’re inspired by big ideas and complex challenges, and welcome inquiries on all topics. Let’s have a conversation about your needs and how we could best support you.
Reach Out
Our Experience
We’re proud of who we partner with.
Our clients are at the vanguard of social change. With them, we share values, mission and a bias toward action.
Additional Clients
America Votes
American Wind Energy Association
Atlantic Philanthropies
Better School Better Jobs Mississippi
BlueGreen Alliance
Center for American Progress
Center for Community Change
Conservation Minnesota Energy Foundation
Democracy Alliance
Democracy Fund
Detroit Future City
Ford Foundation
Foundation for Civic Leadership
Freedom to Marry
Hewlett Foundation
Human Rights Campaign - Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights
League of Conservation Voters
Liberal Party of Canada
MacArthur Foundation
McKnight Foundation
Minnesota Council on Foundations - Census Mobilization Partnership
Minnesotans  United for All Families
MOVE Texas
National Audubon Society
National Education Association
NEO Philanthropy
Ohio Fair Minimum Wage
Perspective Fund
Pew Charitable Trusts
Planned Parenthood
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Rockefeller Foundation
SEIU
State Infrastructure Fund
State Voices
Texas Civil Rights Projects
The Nature Conservancy
Tina Smith for US Senate
Union of Concerned Scientists
Wellstone for Senate
Youth Engagement Fund
Featured Insights
Learn more about what we do and how we think.
Anne Johnson
Now Hiring: Project Manager – Evaluation
Anne Johnson
Now Hiring: Senior Strategist – Evaluation
Ford Foundation:
Reproductive & Gender Justice Portfolio Evaluation
Assessing Strategy In An Evolving Movement
Client Case Study
Democracy
Building Power From The Ground Up
Our Approach
Katie Fox
Evaluating Power Building: A Paradigm Shift for Evaluators
Case Studies & Articles
More Insights
How can we help?
By submitting, Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet dos.
"*" indicates required fields
First Name* Last Name* Email*
Company Mobile Number (optional)By providing a telephone number and submitting this form you are consenting to be contacted by SMS text message. Message & data rates may apply. You can reply STOP to opt-out of further messaging and HELP to get help.What are you interested in?Select One...New BusinessMediaGeneral InquiriesShort MessageCAPTCHAUntitled*
I agree to the Privacy Policy and to be contacted by Grassroots Solutions.
info@GrassrootsSolutions.com
Privacy Policy
© 2025 Grassroots Solutions