Sinosoins Clinic | Acupuncture Downtown Montreal
Skip to content
Main Menu
Home
ServicesMenu Toggle
Acupuncture
Naturopath
Massotherapy
Osteopathy
Facial Rejuvenation
Gua Sha
Cupping
Gift Cards
Treatable ConditionsMenu Toggle
Pain Management
Infertility
Internal Medicine
Emotional Well-Being
Pregnancy & Labour
Women’s Well Being
Men’s Well Being
Conditions from A-Z
Our TeamMenu Toggle
Our Team
Acupuncturist Hong Qian
Pricing
Blog
Contact Us
EnglishMenu Toggle
English
Français
中文 (中国)
Instagram
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Conditions from A - Z
Founded in 2004 by Hong Qian, Clinic of Sinosoins has received thousands of happy patients. More than 98% of treatments are effective and more than 95% of patients got healed.
In 2017, Clinic of Sinosoins has received the Top Acupuncture Clinic Award in Montreal by ThreeBestRated which rates reviews, reputation, history, ratings, complaints, nearness, satisfaction, trust, cost and excellence.
Our Acupuncturist Hong Qian
Our Team
Our Services
At Clinic of Sinosoins, we offer a suite of services to bringing you back to your optimal state of balance
Price List
AcupunctureNaturopathyMassotherapyOsteopathyFacial RejuvenationGua ShaCupping
Testimonials
I was a patient at Sinosoins Clinic for many years and Hong helped me conceive 2 babies naturally with acupuncture and herbal medicine. Before I found Sinosoins clinic, I was pregnant twice and had two miscarriages. I was devastated that doctors couldn’t do anything about it despite all the efforts. Then I decided to try Chinese Medicine so I came to Hong’s clinic. After a few months, I successfully gave birth to my son. After my son was born, I wanted another baby with my husband. I was pregnant again and had another miscarriage. Then I came back to Hong’s clinic and followed more acupuncture therapies. This time, I successfully gave birth to a healthy baby girl. I’m very grateful for this miracle. Thank you so much. BethSinosoins Patient
I was in my 40s when I wanted my baby for the first time. I had issues conceiving a baby naturally, so I tried in vitro fertilization (IVF) on two occasions. And sadly, on both occasions, it failed. I did some intensive research and wanted to try something new so I put my faith in Traditional Chinese Medicine which is a more natural approach to treating health conditions. I went to Sinosoins to see Hong about 2-3 times a week for a few months and was given herbal medicine every week. After 3 months, I was pregnant naturally. What a blessing! AnneSinosoins Patient
When I was in college, I had a very stressful schedule (work and school) so my lifestyle was not healthy (not getting enough sleep). My menstruation became irregular (often late) and all of a sudden, my menstruation stopped even though I did not take any birth control pills. I was worried and anxious every night. Then I found Sinosoins and met acupuncturist Hong. She gave me acupuncture with herbal medicine, and after a few sessions, my menstruation came back. Her herbal tea also helped me tremendously with reducing stress and getting better sleep. KarineSinosoins Patient
I went clubbing one time with my friends and the music at the club was very oud. The next day, I woke up with tinnitus. It was so bothersome because I couldn’t concentrate on my work and I felt constantly anxious. I went to see an otolaryngologist and he couldn’t do much other than giving me some pills. I then came to see acupuncturist Qian and after several sessions, my tinnitus was completely gone. OlivierSinosoins Patient
I went to visit my girlfriend on my motorcycle, and it was a chilly day. After 3 hours on the road, I arrived. That day went normal until the next morning when I woke up with facial paralysis suddenly. My left cheek felt numb and I couldn’t close my left eye properly. I also had problems drinking water as I couldn’t fully close my left side of my mouth. My smile was also crooked. For 2 months, I took some prescribed pills from my doctor and I was about 30% healed. However, the pills didn’t do further good even I took them for a while so I decided to try acupuncture at Sinosoins. After a month of treatment, my facial paralysis was healed. Guillaume Sinosoins Patient
I had allergic rhinitis for many years and every spring and fall, I had itchy eyes and runny nose. I always took over the counter allergy pills but I only had temporary relief. I also had trouble sleeping at night due to stuffy nose. I went to see acupuncturist Qian and I followed sessions of acupuncture combined with herbal medicine. After many treatments, all my allergy symptoms disappeared. Mireille Sinosoins Patient
I suffered insomnia for a year following a bad breakup and a very stressful work environment. I could only sleep for a few hours every single night and I was always tired during the day at work. I took prescribed sleeping pills at the beginning and it helped me falling asleep but only temporary. After 5 months of taking sleeping pills, its effect slowly wears off, and I suffered from insomnia again. After only one acupuncture session with acupuncturist Qian, I felt much more relaxed both physically and psychologically and I fell asleep again. And after 4-5 sessions, I felt completely normal again and I could fall asleep now without taking any pills. With my acupuncture sessions combined with herbal medicine, the effect on me was very natural. I fall asleep naturally and my quality of sleep greatly improved. Also I wake up every morning more refreshed and energized (comparing to taking melatonin or sleeping pills, I still felt tired waking up the next day). SoniaSinosoins Patient
I had severe acne on my face and also my back. I tried getting rid of the problem by washing my face with acne face wash and also taking birth control pills (recommended by my doctor because it helps balancing my hormones). My acne improved by 30%. However, my acne was still very visible, and the birth control pills didn’t seem to work after. So, I tried acupuncture and herbal medicine at acupuncturist Qian’s clinic and after my bi-weekly treatments, 90% of my acne were gone. She also gave me some herbal tea to supplement my acupuncture sessions and also gave me some food recommendations. I’m very happy with the results. EveSinosoins Patient
Read The Testimonials
Blog
Shed Those Extra Pounds Before Your Beach Vacation: How Acupuncture and TCM Can Make You Slim, Fast!Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) can be effective in achieving weight loss goals. Acupuncture works by stimulating specific points in the body to balance energy flow and reduce cravings.
Forever Youthful Skincare Secret Revealed!An natural alternative to fillers and Botox!!! Cosmetic acupuncture can help reduce wrinkles by encouraging collagen and elastin production. It can also improve microcirculation that helps with puffiness and discolouration issues. It is also used in the treatment of acne and breakouts, at any age.
Getting pregnant after 40: how acupuncture can help with infertilityFor women over 40, acupuncture and Chinese medicine can be particularly beneficial. They can improve egg quality, uterine lining quality, and possibly even sperm parameters. While these treatments cannot increase ovarian reserve, they can enhance the quality of eggs, uterine lining, and sperm by improving blood flow to the ovaries and testes.
Read Our Blog
Connect With Us!
Instagram
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Linkedin
Location & Hours
Get Directions
Follow Us
Instagram
Facebook-f
Twitter
Youtube
65 Boul. René-Lévesque East Montreal Office 106QC H2X 1N2
(514) 765-3972
Monday: ClosedTuesday: 10 am - 6:30 pmWednesday: ClosedThursday: 10 am - 6:30 pmFriday: 1 pm - 6:30 pmSaturday: 10 am - 6 pmSunday: Closed
Subscribe for daily health tips!
* indicates required
Email Address *
/* real people should not fill this in and expect good things - do not remove this or risk form bot signups */
Copyright © 2025 Sinosoins Clinic