Source: Lucas Till is Dating Miley Cyrus
Skip to Content
Search
Search for:
Close Search
×
News
Breaking News
Trending
Celebrity Gossip
Celebrity Babies
The Royals
Reality TV
Latest News & Recaps
Duggar News
Sister Wives
Teen Mom
Entertainment
TV
Movies
Music
Sports
Meet The Team
Subscribe
Jasmine Crockett: Congresswoman Denies Cracking Joke About Wheelchair-Bound Texas GovernorHailey & Justin Bieber: Moving to Europe to Save Their Marriage?Jennifer Aniston Was Upset at Being Banned From From Ex Justin Theroux’s Wedding: …Lizzo Fires Back at Weight Loss Backlash, Hypocritical TrollsSydney Sweeney Deletes Jonathan Davino Kiss Pic: Is It Over?Leonardo DiCaprio’s Girlfriend Actually Talks About Dating Famous ActorBen Affleck Breaks Silence on J-Lo Divorce, Admits He’s ‘More Private’ …Garcelle Beauvais Is Leaving ‘The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills’ After 5 …
Source: Lucas Till is Dating Miley Cyrus
By Author Kay Rhodes
Published: Jul 11, 2008 at 8:03 AM • Updated: Apr 10, 2022 at 7:31 AM • Category Lucas Till
Reading Time:  < 1 minute
Reading Time:   < 1 minuteLucas Till is best known for portraying a young Jack Cash in the critically acclaimed film, Walk the Line.
Now, according to reports, Till is cashing in – professionally and personally – by starring opposite Miley Cyrus in the upcoming Hannah Montana movie.
“The moment Miley saw Lucas’ photo, she knew he was perfect to play her on-screen love,” a source told the National Enquirer. “It was as if she decided she wanted him and would have him – like Lucas would have no choice in the matter… She is always cuddling up to him and kissing him on the cheek.”
Granted, the aforementioned tabloid that’s reporting this news is less reliable than an Alex Rodriguez marriage vow. Still, it’s an issue worth pursuing.
Have you heard anything about Miley Cyrus dating Lucas Till?
Lucas Till is definitely a cutie and might be Miley Cyrus’ boyfriend.
Post navigation
Celebrity Baby Watch: Amanda Peet and DaughterAmy Winehouse Puts On a Show!
Click here to cancel reply.
About Us
•
Terms of Use
•
Privacy Notice
•
Legal and Privacy Center
© 2025 The Hollywood Gossip