KTRB - Folks, Something's Gotta Give - Athletics Nation
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Athletics Nation homepage
Horizontal - White
Athletics Nation
an Oakland Athletics community
Follow Athletics Nation online:
Follow Athletics Nation on Twitter
Follow Athletics Nation on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Athletics Nation main menu
Latest
Athletics
Betting
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Latest
2024 Spring Training Schedule
2024 Regular Season Schedule
Full Archive
Athletics
Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Athletics News
Yahoo Athletics Team Page
Yahoo Athletics Report
Yahoo Athletics Depth Chart
Yahoo Athletics Transactions
Yahoo Athletics Photos
Betting
FanDuel MLB Odds
FanDuel World Series Odds
Oakland Athletics Odds
MLB Picks and Predictions
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
✕
Filed under:
KTRB - Folks, Something's Gotta Give
By
Nico
Apr  5, 2009,  1:00pm PDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
KTRB - Folks, Something's Gotta Give
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
I am so glad I took up yoga, because it turns out that if I stand on one leg in the middle of the living room, with my left hand holding my right ear and my spine slightly arched, the A's broadcast comes in clearly for at least the next 10 minutes. Unfortunately, "downward facing dog" turns Vince Cotroneo staticky and Ken Korach appears to be highly irritated if I try to run the washer or dryer during his innings.
Where did KTRB get its 50,000 watts? Was it:
a. At a garage sale.b. From a guy named Joseph who said to call him Ralph, and whose cell phone number is disconnected.
c. From Dyslexic Circuit City, "Where Service is State of the Rat" and all the towers they sell are 00500 watts.
d. xxcccchhhhh ssschchchcxxxchchchch ring him up strrkkkchchchch $%#$kkxalled!
THE PROBLEM
As I understand it, KTRB's issue is not wattage so much as it is too many stations too nearby that broadcast on or near the 860 AM frequency. This causes the station not to come in clearly, or at all:
- When you drive under any power line
- When you drive in a tunnel
- When the weather changes in any way
- When anyone in the same room as the radio moves
And as if the basic reception weren't bad enough, no matter how you position the radio or youself the signal constantly surges and fades to the point of driving a person crazy. Piping KTRB into a hostage situation would actually work well even when Ray Fosse wasn't conducting an interview. ("Jim, how terrible do you feel, knowing that fans are looking forward to all day to hearing the A's radio broadcast, only to have the experience severely compromised by a lousy signal that reminds listeners of KALX's 10-watt signal back in 1979?")
THE SEARCH FOR SOLUTIONS
Here is where I am hoping the community can offer some answers, ideas, or both. I'll start with my planned Monday quests.
AntennaeOn Monday morning, I am visiting an antenna guru or two to see if there are ways I can improve KTRB's reception at least in my Berkeley home. I am willing to spend some money because this is extremely important to me. My thought is that perhaps if I put a good antenna on the roof, pointing towards KTRB's tower, reception might improve. However, I am not even certain how much a good antenna can improve AM reception that is being interfered with by other AM stations - a good antenna might help KTRB come in clearer but it will also help KGO (810-AM) to come in clearer, which is not good.
KTRBI am also planning to call KTRB on Monday to try to speak to someone who is knowledgeable about the station's signal. My recollection is that when the agreement between the A's and KTRB was announced, we heard that plans were in the works for KTRB to boost its signal, in some way, in the near future. Does anyone know or remember exactly what was said, and whether any improvements are forthcoming on KTRB's end?
What Can Fans Do?Those of you who are especially savvy with regards to electronics, please advise: What can a fan do to help the signal come in as strongly and consistently as possible? Is Poochini barking up the wrong tree looking at antennae? Are there other avenues we KTRBeasts should be exploring? Any help is appreciated.
One thing I know fans can do is to tell KTRB that they care, that the problem is real and impactful, and that there is some urgency to the situation. I'm not sure how much KTRB can do, on its end, because so much is restricted and dictated by the FCC, but it can only help to underscore the depth, and immediacy, of this issue.
Something's gotta give, and I'm hoping that between this awesome community and KTRB - both of whom want the same thing - something can. Help!
More From
Athletics Nation
Driveline Chat: Kyle Boddy Interview, Part II of III
Elephant Rumblings: Gelof undergoes surgery for hand fracture
A’s drop spring finale, lose to White Sox 8-5
A’s vs. White Sox Spring Training Game Thread
Elephant Rumblings: Max Muncy makes Opening Day roster
Eyeball Scout Blinded By Sunscreen In Eye, Comes Back To Write Stuff Anyway
Most Read
Elephant Rumblings: Gelof undergoes surgery for hand fracture
MLB news roundup
Eyeball Scout Blinded By Sunscreen In Eye, Comes Back To Write Stuff Anyway
Elephant Rumblings: Max Muncy makes Opening Day roster
MLB news roundup
A’s drop spring finale, lose to White Sox 8-5
The regular season is upon us
Driveline Chat: Kyle Boddy Interview, Part II of III
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook