Walter Benjamin | Art History Unstuffed
Facebook
RSS
Modern
Postmodern
Philosophy
Theory
Reviews
Home
About
About the Author
Curriculum Vitae
How to Use this Site
Podcast
Blog
Modern
Postmodern
Philosophy
Theory
Reviews
Video
Shop
Contact
Select Page
Frederic Jameson and Postmodernity, Part Three
by Jeanne Willette | Aug 29, 2014 | PostmodernFREDERIC JAMESON (1934-) Postmodernism and Consumer Society (1983) Part Three As a literary scholar, Frederic Jameson was trained in the generation of “close reading” and has used literary analysis combined with a neo-Marxism of Karl Marx and the idea of...
Postmodernism and the Past
by Jeanne Willette | Aug 31, 2012 | Contemporary Aesthetics, Contemporary Art, Contemporary Culture, PostmodernTHE PAST IS PRESENT Nostalgia and Retro Art Postmodernism is a time period, beginning at a number of points, depending upon which criteria one is using.  Noting the post-Duchampian works of Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns, one could select 1955 as a starting...
Characteristics of Pop Art
by Jeanne Willette | Mar 23, 2012 | Contemporary Aesthetics, Contemporary Art, Contemporary Culture, PostmodernWHAT WAS POP ART?  Before it was anything else, Pop Art was American…and white…and urban….and male…and middle class…and straight. Pop Art was about affluence, about money and all the things that the middle class white male could afford to...
Theodor Adorno and “The Culture Industry”
by Jeanne Willette | Feb 24, 2012 | Modern Aesthetics, Modern Culture, PostmodernTHEODOR ADORNO (1903-1969) AND  THE CULTURE INDUSTRY Dialectic of Enlightenment (1947) was born in the sun of Hollywood, beside the pools of Santa Monica, in the capital of mass culture designed to entertain and to (literally) stupefy the American public.  It would...
Robert Rauschenberg and “The Flatbed Picture Plane”
by Jeanne Willette | Feb 10, 2012 | Contemporary Aesthetics, Contemporary Art, Contemporary Art Criticism, Contemporary Culture, PostmodernROBERT RAUSCHENBERG  (1925-2008)  Robert Rauschenberg had served in the Navy, as a nurse, during the Second World War, and, like many men of his generation, went to college on the G.I Bill.  After studying in Paris and New York, he found himself at the famous Black...
Page 1 of 3123»
Recent Posts
Art Deco and Women
Le Corbusier: Purism as the Ideal City
Le Corbusier: The Pavillon de l’Esprit Nouveau
The Soviet Pavilion 1925
Constructivism and the Avant-Garde
If you have found this material useful, please give credit to Dr. Jeanne S. M. Willette and Art History Unstuffed.
Thank you.

[email protected]
Get in Touch!
Name
Email Address
Message
1 + 1 =
Send
Facebook
RSS
© Art History Unstuffed. All rights reserved.
|   Site designed by Anthony Garcia