Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique–(CNRS) Laboratoire Charles Fabry de l’Institut d’Optique (CNRS-LCFIO) Laboratoire Hubert Curien (CNRS-LabHC) National Centre for Technological Research – CNRT-Matériaux – (CNRS-CNRT) / Partners / About us / Home - ACTMOST: Access to Micro-Optics Expertise, Services & Technologies
The ACTMOST programme has been finalised and replaced by the ACTPHAST programme. Please check the ACTPHAST website to discover how ACTPHAST can accelerate your photonics innovation.
Home
About us
Our Mission
Micro-Optics
Partners
EU Project
Key Persons
Contact Us
Solution provider
User Projects
What is a "user project" ?
Benefits for your company
How to apply?
Trainings
Customized Trainings
How to apply
Access Units
Modelling and Design
Measurements & characterization
Prototyping, mastering & replication
Packaging
Reliability
FAQ
Home » About us » Partners » Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique–(CNRS) Laboratoire Charles Fabry de l’Institut d’Optique (CNRS-LCFIO) Laboratoire Hubert Curien (CNRS-LabHC) National Centre for Technological Research – CNRT-Matériaux – (CNRS-CNRT)
Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique–(CNRS) Laboratoire Charles Fabry de l’Institut d’Optique (CNRS-LCFIO) Laboratoire Hubert Curien (CNRS-LabHC) National Centre for Technological Research – CNRT-Matériaux – (CNRS-CNRT)
The French CNRS (Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique) participates in ACTMOST through three research laboratories: Laboratoire Hubert Curien (CNRS-LabHC) at Saint-Etienne, Laboratoire Charles Fabry de l’Institut d’Optique (CNRS-LCFIO) at Palaiseau in the Southern part of the greater Paris area and National Centre for Technological Research (CNRS-CNRT), part of the laboratory CRISTMAT at Caen. CNRS-LabHC, CNRS-LCFIO and CNRS-CNRT are  research units “unités mixtes de recherche” between CNRS and higher education and research institutions, in this case the Université Jean Monnet de Saint-Etienne for CNRS-LabHC, the Institut d’Optique-Graduate School in cooperation with the Université Paris-Sud XI for CNRS-LCFIO, and  the ENSICAEN and the University of Caen for the CNRS-CNRT.
CNRS-LCFIO
The Institut d’Optique-Graduate School offers master training in Optics, Photonics, and Optoelectronics. It is the leader of the recently opened Erasmus Mundus Course on Optics in Science and Technology.
With a faculty and staff of 150 including doctoral students, CNRS-LCFIO conducts research in a wide variety of subjects in the fascinating field of Optics, from fundamental aspects related to conceptual advances in physics to state of the art technology in optical engineering. This includes atom optics, quantum information, nanophotonics, solid state lasers, biophotonics, non linear materials, soft X-ray optics, interferometry, high precision aspheric optics, thin films and optical systems. The laboratory operates in close cooperation with “IOTech”, an optical engineering facility devoted to industrial partnerships.
CNRS-LabHC
The Hubert Curien laboratory UMR CNRS 5516 of the university of Lyon at Saint Etienne hosts more than 100 co-workers in optical technologies, half of them active in laser –matter interactions and microstructuring technologies. The first domain encompasses femto-second laser machining/marking with spatial and temporal beam shaping at 800 nm wavelength, PLD as well as the spectroscopy of light induced and cured defects. The second domain comprises the physics and chemistry of nanoparticles in sol-gel host-materials and the topic of resonant gratings which represents what the laboratory offers in the framework of ACMOST. The offer is characterized by vertical integration of competences ranging from the modeling of structures and system design to the manufacturing technologies.
CNRS-CNRT
The National Centre for Technological Research CNRT-Matériaux is an extensively equipped technological platform, intimately linked to industry, with a core competence in material science. The CNRT-Matériaux was created in 2009 by 3 French laboratories active in the field of material science in Caen and Le Havre. The centre is well-known for its expertise in “Materials and Shaping” and has been working for many years in total synergy with industry. The CNRT-Matériaux organisation involves industrials (NXP, TOTAL-France and CMEG), research organisms (CNRS, ENSICAEN) and the Universities of Caen and Le Havre. The CNRT-Matériaux hosts 197 persons, including 107 researchers, 18 engineers, 35 technicians and 37 industrials. The underlying concept of this structure builds on technological research initiated by industry and on the stimulation of technological innovation. CNRT-Matériaux enables the transfer from laboratory to industry of new materials or new material properties discovered by fundamental research. As such it promotes the application of innovative materials in new devices.
Address
Campus Polytechnique - RD 128
2, avenue Augustin Fresnel
91127 PALAISEAU Cedex
France
Websitehttp://www.cnrs.fr
Contact Person
Dr Pierre Chavel
member, Executive Board and coordinator of "modelling and simulation" unit
Support for industry   Did you know?
Contact
Mrs. Nathalie Debaes
Project support officer
+32 2 629 10 18
Supported by
Our partners
Join our newsletter!
E-mail
News - View all
07/11 - Professor positions available at B-PHOT
23/03 - ACTMOST headline news.
16/03 - Press release : "European SMEs embrace complimentary photonics innovation support from ACTMOST"
13/05 - ACTMOST at Laser World Photonics Munich on 25th May, 2011
15/04 - Photonics more accessible for SME's
Flyer of ACTMOST - View all
General introduction (flyer)
Editor login - Consortium Portal
© Actmost 2010