Tom Watson, A 59 Year Old Golfer Almost Makes History Today At The British Open | Crooks and Liars
Support C&L — Go Ad-Free Today
Ad Free Login
CLTV
Follow us on Bluesky
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Mastodon
Follow us on Flipboard
CLTV
Follow us on Bluesky
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Mastodon
Follow us on Flipboard
My Ad Free Account
Support C&L
Go Ad-Free Today
Subscriber Login
Latest
Donald Names Failed Attorney Alina Habba As US Attorney For NJ
Fox Legal Contributor Reminds Host: 'Because It's The Law'
Fox News: Voters Will Be Happy To Suffer Pain Musk Inflicts
Tom Watson, A 59 Year Old Golfer Almost Makes History Today At The British Open
He had it right in his grasp and came oh so close. History that is. Tom Watson almost did the unthinkable today when he just fell short and lost in
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
By John Amato
— July 19, 2009
He had it right in his grasp and came oh so close. History that is. Tom Watson almost did the unthinkable today when he just fell short and lost in a four hole playoff at the British Open in Turnberry, Scotland. The odds had him at something like a 1000-1 long shot to win it before the tournament started and boy did he ever smash that betting line apart. And it all came down to the last hole of the Open. Just par the hole and take the trophy. His tee shot was great, but then he hit his second and third shots a little too hard on eighteen and he missed his 10-foot victory putt which made him lose his one stroke lead---forced the playoff and poof--lost his chance at history. it happened that fast.
In his presser he was really disappointed because he knew he had it in his hands and all competitors for the most part do not like to finish second in anything even if they're almost 60. It still was a remarkable run and one that should make us take notice and tell us that anything is possible in life. Watson was also coming off of a hip replacement this year which made it even more improbable that he had a chance to win a major. Just walking 18 holes in one day is tiring, but to do it for four straight days was simply remarkable.
Tom also should be recognized for his civil rights stance when he quit a Club because they refused to allow Jews to become members.
Which brings us to Tom Watson, one of the greatest golfers of his generation and whose heroic, but unsuccessful charge for the Claret Jug at age 59 will be long-remembered. Tom is a rock-ribbed midwesterner from Missouri, a native of Kansas City, and like his father, who taught him golf, was a lifelong member of the National Golf Club of Kansas City.
In 1990, the Club refused membership to someone because he was Jewish. Quietly, without fanfare, Watson immediately quit the Club, but made his reasons why known privately. Not until the Club dropped its exclusionary policies did Watson rejoin.
Topics: Civil Rights, Golf, Jews, Sports, Sports
Can you help us out?
For over 20 years we have been exposing Washington lies and untangling media deceit, but social media is limiting our ability to attract new readers. Please give a one-time or recurring donation, or buy a year's subscription for an ad-free experience. Thank you.
Become a subscriber:
To become an ad-free subscriber please select one of the following two options. Once you click your selected plan a window will open taking you to Admiral, our ad-free partner.MonthlyEnjoy ad-free browsing while paying as you go.Just $1 for the first month$6.99/month thereafterSelect PlanYearlyEnjoy a full year of ad-free browsing.$75.00/yearSelect Plan**Does not apply to Comments, YouTube or any other embedded service ads. View our Ad-Free FAQ for more information.
Make a donation:
If you don't mind the ads and would rather donate, please select one of the options below:
Kindest
Donate via PayPal
Via Snail Mail
payable to: Crooksandliars
528 Palisades Drive
Ste 548
Pacific Palisades, CA 90272
Explore more
1,200 Year Old Canoe Recovered From A Wisconsin Lake
Chris capper Liebenthal
—
Nov 7th, 2021
'Sons Of Guns' Canceled After Host Charged With Raping 12-Year-Old Daughter 'Almost Daily'
—
Aug 28th, 2014
February 28, 1981 - Negotiations And Making Nice.
Gordonskene
—
Feb 28th, 2012
Discussion
We welcome relevant, respectful comments. Any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. Please refer to our Terms of Service for information on our posting policy.
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
What's Hot
'Yell Some More': Newsmax Pundit Goes Berserk Over Tesla Stock Losses
David Edwards
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Tulsi Gabbard's Head Did Exorcist-Spin Over DoD Signal Leak
John Amato
—
Mar 25th, 2025
No One's Mentioning All The Federal Laws They Just Broke
Susie Madrak
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Happening now
Trump's CIA Director Didn't Know Witkoff Was In Russia During Leaked Group Chat
John Amato
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Latest from Blue America
Virginia Endorsement Alert: Jessica Anderson
Endorsement: Saikat Chakrabarti For Congress
Dems Need Consensus— A Good Place To Start Would Be FDR... And Josh Weil
Help Make America Blue
Daily Newsletter
Our daily top picks right to your inbox
Email
Name
Sign Up!
© 2025 Crooks and Liars
Team
About Us
Contact
Terms of Service
Privacy
DMCA
Corrections
Mastodon