California Teachers Association (CTA)
February 2018
....
San Diego Education Report
July 2013
CTA.
CTA
CTA.
CTA
CTA
In other action State Council:* Elected Gilda Bloom as NEA Director (District 17, Higher Ed)* Re-elected CTA Board members Don Dawson (District B), Cynthia Peña (District G), and Bonnie Shatun (District I); Marc Sternberger, NEA Coordinating Director; and Peg Myers, NEA Alternate Director [see photo at left].* Re-elected CTA ABC Committee Members Patrick Riggs (District A), Michael Harrelson (District N), and E. Toby Boyd, Member-at-Large; and elected Greg Bonaccorsi (District B), Mike Patterson (District D), Robert Lynch (District E), and Rick McClure (District K).
.
.
California Department of EducationExecutive OfficeSBE-006 Specific (REV. 05/2009)        ITEM #WC- 10CALIFORNIA STATE BOARD OF EDUCATIONNOVEMBER 2009 AGENDA1 Specific WaiverSUBJECTRequest by Waugh Elementary School District under the authority of California Education Code Section 52863 for a waiver of Education Code Section 52852, allowing one joint schoolsite council to function for two schools: Corona Creek Elementary School and Meadow Elementary School.Waiver Number: 32-6-20091   Action1   ConsentRECOMMENDATION0  Approval   1 Approval with conditions  0  DenialThat the joint schoolsite council (SSC) which will serve during the period of this waiver, be composed of the following sixteen members: the shared school principal; three classroom teachers, one other school employee and four parents or community members selected by parents representing Corona Creek Elementary; three classroom teachers, and four parents or community members selected by parents representing Meadow Elementary School.SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS STATE BOARD OF EDUCATION DISCUSSION AND ACTIONSpecific authority is provided in California Education Code (EC) Section 52863 to allow the State Board of Education (SBE) to waive the SSC requirements of the School-Based Coordination Program (SBCP) Act that would hinder the success of school-based programs. These waivers must be renewed every two years. All waivers of this type have been approved by the SBE for schools too small to meet the SSC composition requirements of California EC Section 52852.Pursuant to the SBE Waiver Policy: Schoolsite Councils for Small Schools Sharing Common Services or Attendance Areas, available at http://www.cde.ca.gov/re/lr/wr/documents/schoolsitepolicyr.doc, schools must have small numbers of students and teachers, and have a common site administration, curriculum, or other shared services; or, have a geographic proximity or similar student populations. Since the population of the schools are over 400 students this policy does not apply.However, this district meets the criteria for the SBE Streamlined Waiver Policy available at http://www.cde.ca.gov/re/lr/wr/documents/sbestreamlined.doc, achieving an Academic  Performance Index (API) of 800 or above in the current scoring cycle.SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS STATE BOARD OF EDUCATION DISCUSSION AND ACTION (Cont.)Therefore, this waiver has been scheduled for the consent calendar as Waugh Elementary School District has a 2008 API of 898.SUMMARY OF KEY ISSUESThe Waugh Elementary School District has two small elementary schools located less than a mile apart from each other and serve similar student and parent populations. There is a common Parent Teacher Association, a common English Learner Advisory Committee, and a common educational foundation. All curricula are identical. All teachers meet for planning staff development. Since the primary purpose of the SSC is to advise on instructional improvement, it’s reasonable to address issues jointly. To have separate SSCs would unnecessarily duplicate efforts and fractionalize employee, parent, and student constituencies.The student population at Corona Creek Elementary School will be 464 and Meadow Elementary School will be 453, so they do not meet the Waiver Policy criteria.The SSC has approved this request. The California Department of Education recommends approval with the above conditions.Demographic Information: Waugh Elementary School District has a student population of 917 and is located in a rural area in Sonoma County.Authority for Waiver: EC Section 52863Period of request:  July 1, 2009, to July 31, 2011Local board approval date(s):  June 16, 2009Bargaining unit(s) consulted on date(s): September 1, 2009Name of bargaining unit/representative(s) consulted: Waugh Teacher’s Association/Marlene ScholzPosition of bargaining units:0  Neutral                       1  Support                     0  OpposeComments (if appropriate): NoneAdvisory committee(s) consulted: Waugh Schoolsite Council
.
...
...
.
School culture is unhealthy at many, if not most, schools.
Maura Larkins is not fighting for herself.  She has an exciting new life outside the classroom.  She is fighting for kids--and for teachers.Many excellent teachers whose rights have been trampled by CTA needed their jobs to survive.Maura Larkins was able to survive financially without her job, but one younger teacher from Castle Park Elementary, Heather Smith, who lost her job because of the unhealthy teacher culture at Castle Park Elementary, became seriously ill and could not support herself.Let's face it, Castle Park Elementary is not presently a good place to work, so it didn't break Maura Larkins' heart to leave its toxic environment.  But it broke  her heart to watch the school she loved as a child spin out of control.  That school continues to circle the drain.  The PTA closed down in 2005  because $20,000 disappeared from its accounts.Castle Park Elementary should be a good place to work. Maura Larkins will continue to work to see that it and other schools become good places to work.
If you worked at this place, with people like these,  and these,once you got over the initial shock of losing your job, you wouldn't really be sad to be out of a deeply dysfunctional workplace.
Coach James "Ted" Carter's students needed him.  Principal Dianne Carberry and her husband, a coach who suggested a student take a substance that caused his kidneys to fail,  should have been fired instead of Carter, who blew the whistle.Why did Daniel Shinoff and  the Escondido Union High School District board appeal the court's award to Carter?  They should have apologized, paid the victim, and immediately hired new administrators.
Maura Larkins' students needed her.  They  were deprived, at a critical time of their education, when they were undergoing a critical transition from bilingual to English-only instruction, of a teacher who knew how to teach them.
Who wants to silence teachers?  Both Arnold and CTA!Arnold Schwarzenegger and CTA President Barbara Kerr BOTH want to silence teachers.  How do we keep free speech in California?1) In November 2005, this site urged a NO vote NO on Propostion 75.Unions deserve to have a voice just as much as corporations.2) Throw out corrupt CTA officers Barbara Kerr, David Sanchez and Dean Vogeland--even more importantly--throw out head legal counsel Beverly Tuckerand executive director Carolyn Doggett.
CTA should quit making demandsBonnie Dumanis has already done enough for Barbara Kerr and CTA head counsel Beverly Tucker by declining to investigate obstruction of justice by CTA and SDCOE JPA in the Larkins case.In the Larkins case, CTA worked closely with union-buster Libia Gil and others whom it usually opposes.  Politics makes strange bedfellows!Why did Dumanis decline to investigate?    She's courting Republicans more and more these day.  Dumanis would receive painful political retribution if she held either Democratic leaders of CTA or Republican leaders of SDCOE* responsible for their crimes.  Why would Dumanis risk her neck to protect a third-grade teacher from felony obstruction of justice?  She wouldn't.In the Larkins case, individuals from both Democratic and Republican parties were seeking personal power at the expense of the institutions they represent.  There was a time when Democrats and Republicans worked together for the public good.  That time is past.  Now it seems they work together only to split ill-gotten gains.
Hasn't San Diego District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis already done enough for Beverly Tucker?
Open letter to Barbara Kerr
See San Diego Union Tribune story regarding the Coach Carter v. Carberry case
Workers need unions, but workers don't need arrogant union bosses and lawyers! California Teachers Association needs new leadership to protect teachers and students from unscrupulous, power-hungry individuals who have obtained control.  *  * *
Update:#1 was accomplished on November 8, 2005.
The FBI and the SEC are investigating union presidents in San Diego
Public Employment Relations Board)*See PERB Decision 800.00000;UNION UNFAIR PRACTICES
But #2 still needs work.
"California Teachers Association, a state wide organization, is not the exclusive representative and does not owe employees a duty of fair representation." *
CTA relies heavily on the protection of this decision.  The San Diego Superior Court disagreed with this decision in the Maura Larkins' case, but the issue has not been raised at the appellate level.
California union presidents agreed to and profited from a pension scam in the City of San Diego.  Union presidents who were on the San Diego pension board have been indicted.  Metropolitan Employees Association President Judie Italiano and her lawyer Ann Smith are determined to keep the ill-gotten gains they obtained by working closely with Republican Mayor Richard Murphy.The FBI and SEC, in addition to the district attorney,are investigating.
CTA dishonestly obtained over $6,000 from a teacher in an apparent attempt to punish her for complaining about crimes committed against her by other teachers.CTA lawyer Michael Hersh also wrote a letter gloating over the fact that the teacher didn't know how to defend herself from his taking such a huge amount of her money by dishonest means.
Winner ousted after CWA election
A little-known PERB (Public Employment Relations Board) decision allows CTA to run roughshod over ethical teachers who try to blow the whistle on CTA wrongdoing.
CTA head counsel Beverly Tucker and executive director Carolyn Doggett have muzzled teachers.  They have worked hard to silence teachers in Chula Vista Elementary School District and elsewhere.  In 2005, then CTA president Barbara Kerr and Beverly Tucker asked the San Diego District Attorney to investigate an e-mail written by teachers Lillian Perry and Larry Sand.  "It's insulting that it was sent to [teachers] at their schools," says Kerr.Only CTA should be allowed to tell  teachers what to think, right, Beverly?
CTA (and MEA) attorney Ann Smith
Unlike other California unions, CTA has no legal obligation to give fair representation.  How did this happen?
How Did CTA Get Special Permission to Violate California Labor Law?
CTA union leaders puffed themselves up with pride because the voters disagreed with Schwarzenegger about the need to silence unions.  It was NOT CTA union bosses Carolyn Doggett, Beverly Tucker who did it.  And it certainly wasn't the figurehead president Barbara Kerr.  It was the rank and file and the people of California!
If the Sago mine had been a union mine, shop stewards would have closed it down.  Click here for USA Today story about the January 2006 Sago mine tragedy.
Since CTA controls local affiliates, this decision removes almost all K-12 teachers in California from equal representation protections.  Are the best teachers in charge?  Not by a long shot.
These people can't tell the innocent from the guilty
CTA tells local affiliates what to do, and supplies the lawyers.  CTA is clearly in charge, but PERB pretends it isn't.
CTA is not required  by PERB to obey the EERA, or Elementary Education Relations Act.  What is going on at PERB ?
*The Prison Guards Union was the most powerful until recently.
SEA(Sweetwater Education Association)
California Teachers Association 2009(CTA)Carolyn Doggett, Executive DirectorBeverly Tucker, Head CounselDavid Sanchez, PresidentDean Vogel,Vice Pres.Daniel Vaughn, Secretary Treas.Rosalind Wolf,staff counselMichael D. Hersh,staff counselOct 2009Priscilla S. Winslow, Joseph R. Colton, Beverly Tucker, Ballinger G. Kemp, Ramon E. RomeroBrenda Sutton-Wills, Esquire11745 E. Telegraph roadSanta Fe Springs, CaliforniaBernhard Rohrbacher, attorney
Jim Groth                                        P(replaced Dianne Jones in 2007)Jim Groth was apparently chosen in appreciation of his loyalty to Beverly Tucker and Carloyn Doggett.Eric Heins                            C[Replacing Pixie Hayward Schickele, whose campaign to become CTA president began in 2006.  But one of Pixie Hayward Schickele’s chickens came home to roost, in the person of Richard Werlin (see right), whose illegal actions Pixie supported as a director of CTA.  In 2006 Werlin became Asst. Supt. for Human Resources in Pixie’s own West Contra Costa School District!  At the time I asked, "This isn’t a problem for you, is it, Pixie?  Within a few months, Pixie's local CTA affiliate UTR, and UTR's president Gail Mendes, had formed a close working relationship with Werlin, working together to punish and get rid of teachers who spoke out about problems.  UTR and Werlin got carried away, and predictably, just as it had in Chula Vista Elementary School District, trouble ensued.  Second-grade teacher Jenny Mo was arrested in front of her students for refusing to be silenced regarding bullying at her school.]Recent directorsMarc Knapp (1996-2007) CTA/NEADavid Hernandez      At-Large(left in 2007 to become CTA staffer)Other CTA leaders:Marlene Scholz
Marty G. Meeden        At-largeJim Rogers    CTA/NEA coordinationBonnie Shatun                     I
CTA Board of Directors 2007-8   DistrictLarry Allen                         ADonald Bridge                    KPaula Caplinger                  EDana Dillon                     D[replaced Larry Carlin   in 2007]Mikki Cichocki                    OTom Conry          N (San Diego)Dayton Crummey               BMichael Green                    HDián Dolores Hasson      J-HELynette Henley         At-LargeMignon Jackson               J-LADon Dawson                       F(replaced Robert C. Nichols)Mary Rose Ortega             J-LACynthia Peña                      GLloyd Porter                        MTyrone Cabell                   L[replaced Daniel Vaughn  in 2007]
A Troubling Pattern of supporting child abusers who are pals of CTA leaders
......
CTA Covers up Wrongdoing
CTA's attitude toward due process for teachers
Other unions
In 2002, Beverly Tucker, chief counsel of CTA, directed new employee Michael Hersh to take the position that local affiliate Chula Vista Educators president Gina Boyd would refuse to testify about her actions against a CVE/CTA member.  CTA and CVE aided and abetted crimes and other violations of law against a member, Maura Larkins, while claiming to represent her.
Are the Wrong People in Control of California's Most Powerful Union?
Unlike child molester Albert Truitt, and CTA bigwig Fred Kamper, Carter didn't get CTA representation.
Beverly Tucker, Former CTA chief counsel--Beverly Tucker postsTucker faxes
Barbara Kerr (2003-2007)Wayne Johnson (1999-2003)Lois Tinson (1995-1999)
Every four years, the vice-president is automatically and unanimously "elected" president by the State Council by a voice vote; after two terms, the next person in line moves up.
CTA State Headquarters1705 Murchison Drive, Burlingame, CA 94010Phone: 650/697-1400 Fax: 650/552-5002e-mail: webmaster@cta.org
FIGUREHEADS
Chula Vista Educators (CVE)
Who wants to silence teachers?The California Court of Appeal does.from California Appellate Reportby Shaun MartinTuesday, August 28, 2007San Leandro Teachers Ass'n v. Governing Board (Cal. Ct. App. - Aug. 28, 2007)I kept reading this opinion expecting to find a dissent. In vain.Too bad.Justice Swager holds that Section 7054 of the Education Code, which generally bars school funds from being used to support particular candidates or ballot measures, operates to prohibit a school union from placing a brochure in the mailboxes of its member teachers at a school.The teacher mailboxes are just sitting there. The brochures are paid for entirely by the union. The only thing that the mailboxes -- which are ordinarily used by the school -- do is to hold up the brochures and keep them from falling on the floor. That's it. It costs the school nothing for the brochures to be placed therein. But the Court of Appeal holds that this use nonetheless violates Section 7054.Justice Swager says that Section 7054 permits the union to place the brochures on a desk. Or a table. Or on a chair. Moreover, that Section 7054 allows a union official to use a school's desk, or table, or chair, or even its electricity in order to give a partisan speech on school grounds. But using a mailbox, he says, is categorically different. That's prohibited by Section 7054.I'd have loved to see a dissent.- posted by Shaun Martin @ 4:26 PM  http://calapp.blogspot.com/2007_08_01_archive.html
More Documents from theCTA cover-up of wrongdoing by union-connected teachers against a CTA member in the Maura Larkins case
from www.cta.orgSchool and Student SafetyThe California Teachers Association believes that all students and education employees deserve a safe learning and working environment. Local school districts and state agencies must take all necessary steps to make schools safe for students and school employees.CTA believes that discipline, order, and safety are essential for an environment conducive to learning. A truly safe school setting must extend beyond freedom from danger to freedom from fear of danger, which inhibits teaching and learning as well as participation in school and community activities. Students must be safe from physical, verbal, and psychological violence.CTA supports legislation that makes schools and the surrounding environment a drug free zone, and an area free of guns and knives and other harmful weapons. And at a minimum, each classroom should be equipped with an electronic device for communication purposes between each classroom and the school office.Educational facilities must be smoke-free and safe from all environmental and chemical hazards, including lead from water pipe systems within schools, inadequate ventilation, and sick-building syndrome. The Association urges the establishment and vigorous enforcement of stringent standards at least equal to the private sector standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to ensure health and safety.Students must be safe from the time they leave home until they reach school, during school and on their return. This safety must be protected regardless of the mode of transportation.
CTA undermines student and teacher safety, but talks a different story
In 2001, in Chula Vista Elementary School District, CTA helped stop an investigation into a teacher who was reported, by two other teachers, to possibly be planning to come to school and start shooting.  The teacher under suspicion begged CTA to demand an investigation to clear her name, but CTA and CVE (Chula Vista Educators) refused.
When teachers abuse students and other teachers, CTA defends the perpetrators.
May 2008: On or before May 13, 2008 someone put a black box over the transcript below.  This was not done through my computer.  I can't remove the box from the transcript image.  So I scanned the document again and republished it below.
Maybe CTA lawyer Michael Hersh was right when he said that nobody cares about Maura Larkins  (see transcript below), but MR. HERSH AND CTA ARE WRONG TO BELIEVE THAT THE RULE OF LAW DOES NOT MATTER.
It's important that the law be followed.  Without the rule of law, we have chaos.  It's important to remove people like those who have corrupted CTA and PERB.  As long as CTA is out of control, education in California is out of control.
People might not care about Maura Larkins, but they care about their kids.  CTA regularly harms kids in order to protect the power of those with clout at CTA.
CTA's attitude toward due process for teachers is  clearly one of contempt, as can be seen in the transcript below from the Maura Larkins case.  Michael Hersh, who works closely with CTA chief counsel Beverly Tucker, faxed the deposition transcript.  Maura Larkins added the emphasis.  This attitude harms education in California, frequently causing good teachers to be replaced with less capable teachers for political reasons.
June 2007: the following page was mysteriously erased from this website:
Lawsuit Against CTAand Head Counsel Beverly Tucker
.
.
....
Wednesday, May 14, 2008An open letter to CTA head counsel Beverly Tucker's subordinateHi Mike:I just noticed that someone hacked my CTA webpage that had the quote of you saying that you and the rest of the public don't care if my due process rights were violated.You shouldn't be any more ashamed of your attitude than Beverly Tucker or Carolyn Doggett or the officers of CTA should be ashamed of their attitudes. I hope they aren't making you feel bad about it. They should be nothing but grateful to you for doing what they paid you to do.Ironically, your hostility was actually a measure of your humanity.  You couldn't have done the job that you were assigned to do if you hadn't dehumanized me.You had to believe that I didn't deserve the protection of the law or my union. You had to believe this, or it would have been impossible for you to help your clients get away with their multiple crimes against me. So hold your head up high when you are in the presence of CTA bigwigs--and 90% of lawyers. You might, however, want to bow your head in the presence of children.Maura LarkinsP.S. You shouldn't be any more ashamed than Chula Vista Educators (CVE) officers Gina Boyd, Tim O'Neill, Jim Groth, or Peggie (Peg) Myers.
.
.
.
CTA refuses to take any responsibility  for  illegal actions of local CTA-affiliate officials against members.Yet CTA controls those local officials when it comes to promoting CTA's agenda!CTA is like any corrupt insurance company.  It will not spend one dime protecting those who pay premiums if it can help it, even if it has to commit crimes to keep the money.  However, it pays huge amounts to lawyers like Beverly Tucker who are in control of CTA.
Obviously, there are bullies at Sheldon Elementary, but not all of them are children.  The adults involved are very reminiscent of the adults involved in the Maura Larkins case in Chula Vista, CA.  In fact, two individuals were involved in both cases!  They are Richard Werlin and Pixie Hayward- Schnickele.
CTA director Pixie Hayward-Schnickele, who is, co-incidentally, a teacher in Jenny Mo's district, approved the actions of CTA in covering up violations of law, including crimes, in Chula Vista.  (Or maybe it's not a co-incidence that Werlin came to Pixie's district?  Maybe Pixie was influential in Werlin's hiring?  Often there are teachers on the interview committees for administrators.  Pixie helped cover up Rick Werlin's (and CTA's) crimes and other violations of law committed  in Chula Vista Elementary School District from 2001-2003.  See: CTA lawyer Hersh tried to trick court regarding Obstruction of Justice in the Maura Larkins case.)
No, the problem is not Richmond schools in particular, although the superintendent of West Contra Costa County Unified School District, Bruce Harter, apparently disregarded this site when he hired Werlin in 2006.  He flunked Google.  (Or maybe Rick Werlin was exactly what he wanted???)
He did the same thing at Castle Park Elementary in Chula Vista Elementary School District.  Fortunately, the teacher in Chula Vista was at home, so the police left empty-handed.  Werlin's testimony under oath has been contradicted by teachers on more than one occasion.  To put it simply, Werlin has a habit of making foolish decisions, then making up false stories to justify his decisions.
Richard Werlin depositionSorry I'm slow in scanning it.  It will be one page at a time, starting with page 40.
Link: CTA's and Richard Werlin's Chula Vista co-conspirator Robin Donlan is part of an investigation by the FBI, SEC, IRS and DOJ
One might have thought that the Maura Larkins case involved deeply personal issues for the teachers who were exposed as having falsely accused Maura Larkins.  It didn't.  Nothing about their private lives was revealed.  The effort to conceal depositions was motivated only by the effort to cover up CTA's wrongdoing.At right is Maura Larkins' response to efforts of CTA and its co-defendants to keep videotapes secret.Of course, the judge did not have the authority to keep secret the evidence of multiple perjuries in furtherance of spoliation of documents.
Maura Larkins' letter to CTA and its co-defendants regarding their anxiety about the truth being revealed in her case.
In January 2007, Richmond, California second-grade teacher Jenny Mo was arrested in front of her students when she spoke out about children bullying other children at the school, and then refused to be silenced by Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources Rick Werlin.  Does the name Werlin sound familiar?  To readers of this site, and people in an assortment of school districts across the country where he has worked, Mr. Werlin's name is indeed familiar.
Werlin most likely got an okay from Gail Mendez before he took action against Jenny Mo.  Gail Mendez is known for her attacks on teachers who speak out.
At CTA, "ethics" is defined asnot blowing the whistle, no matter what.At CTA, everyone looks the other way, even when crimes are committed by CTA against members.  (Or especially when crimes are committed by CTA against members.)
I don't have a picture of Richard Werlin, but here is the next best thing I have to offer. I have long suspected that Mr. Werlin was separated at birth from former United Nations ambassador John Bolton.
More about Richard Werlin
Werlin and Bolton share the same kiss-up, kick-down personalities, and the same history of fits of anger and abuse of employees. The last time I saw Mr. Werlin, he was sporting a mustache identical to Mr. Bolton's, but he has bright blue contact lenses instead of glasses.
Recently, parents have been asking if those in charge of Richmond, California schools have gone" nuts."
Richard Werlin seems to have developed a habit of telling principals to call the police when a teacher even threatens to go to the media.
CTA's favored administrator Richard Werlin and the arrest of 2nd-grade teacher Jenny Mo
.
How does CTA harm the educational system in California?By insisting that teachers be judged based on politics rather than teaching ability.  There was blatant power-mongering in the Joyce Abrams case, with Joyce Abrams as both victim and perpetrator.CTA is powerful in deciding who can teach and where they can teach.
How does he get rehired?  First, because anti-teacher board members and superintendents think people like Werlin are just what they need--apparently even though  his actions tend to result in legal bills costing hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars.But let's not forget the enormous help Werlin gets from California Teachers Association.  CTA works with people like Werlin to protect CTA leaders from responsibility for wrongdoing.  Werlin received an enormous amount of help from the California Teachers Association when he was covering up wrongdoing by himself and a small group of politically-connected (politically-connected means connected to the union) teachers in Chula Vista Elementary School District from 2001 to the present.  Apparently the first thing Werlin did when he got to WCCCUSD was to cultivate union president Gail Mendes, who had a personal relationship with Werlin that included calling him on his cell phone during vacation.
Rick Werlin, who has been pushed out of district after district (in Texas, New York, and California), always seems to get rehired.
Southwestern Community College faculty tries to break away from CTA.
Deja vu?  CTA behaved like the CIA regarding these tapesCTA Joined Other Defendants in the Maura Larkins case in asking the judge to keep deposition videotapes secret
CTA takes over Long Beach Teachers Association because teachers tried to recall a board member
CTA Lawyers
Emily Shieh
Beverly Tucker lawsuitMichael D. HershMichael D. FourGlenn Rothner
In 2008, the mysterious disappearances have continued.
A mystery person put a black box over the transcript in or before May 2008:
A HACKER HITS THIS SITE?
June 12, 2008:  I couldn't remove the black box, but someone came back again within the past month and removed the black box.
...
To see this document  clearly, click here.
California's Most Powerful Union*
Fred Kamper case
Beverly Tucker faxes
Other NEA/CTA Local Affiliates
Lawsuit Against CTA and CVE (Donlan coverup)
Chula Vista Educators(CVE)
Why Teachers Leave
Letter to former CVE President Gina Boyd
Castle Park Elementary
Los Angeles Times articles about CTA
CTA in Community CollegesSouthwestern CollegeGCCCD
Dec. 08: What happened to Jim Groth?
.
Lawyers suborn perjury of Chula Vista teacher
Deposition of Gina Boyd,President of Chula Vista Educators
Theoretically, the local affiliates have to obey the law, but PERB has never enforced the law that requires them to give equal and fair representation.  CTA members simply do not enjoy the protections afforded to other union members.
.
Deposition of Peg Myers, CVE President, client of Kelly Angell Minnehan
Most of the attacks on CTA come from the right.  This attack on CTA  is coming from the left.   I am a Democrat.  I am also a teacher and member of CTA since 1974, so I supposeIT WOULD BE MORE ACCURATE TO SAY THAT THIS ATTACK IS COMING FROM  BELOW.   Carolyn Doggett and Beverly Tucker are my union leaders, but in order to protect the leaders of my local affiliate from responsibility for their wrongdoing, they violated the contract and the law.It turns out that CTA has a curious policy.I'm not sure, but it might be numbered Policy Catch 22.
It is this:  if CTA fails to live up to its obligations to a member, the member must not complain, because CTA then considers the member an opponent, and rather than honoring its obligations to that member, takes action against the member.  Some unions will pay for outside counsel for a member when there is a conflict between a member and her local union boss.  Not CTA.  Nor can the member appeal to PERB, the Public Employment Relations Board.*Even though CTA executives are involved in every aspect of local affiliate decision making, PERB has decided that CTA has NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE EQUAL REPRESENTATION TO MEMBERS!
You might be surprised at which teachers CTA defends.  Take a look at the Albert Truitt and Fred Kamper cases.
Which teachers does CTA defend?  Usually, it defends the politicians, not the professionals
It's worse in MexicoTeachers here work in terrible conditions for little pay. This is especially true in the small villages. These strikes have been going on for over 20 years. This year, however they have been joined by others, such as the APPO (Asemblea Popular Puebla de Oaxaca). The PRI governor, who undobtably stole his election is terrible, just as his predecessor was, and the one before, and bothe groups are demanding his resignation.The teachers union (STNE) is also very, very corrupt, at least on the national level. Their head, Elba Esther Gordillo has got to be one of the most corrupt politicians in the state and has much to do with the fraudulent presidential elections.by [Parent] mariachi mama onMon Aug 14, 2006 at 09:18:16 AM PDT
I am growing increasingly weary of the NEA's involvement in political issues and its newfound obsession with sending me some sort of insurance, investment or credit deal every day in the mail. I also grow tired of the area reps badgering us about membership and spouting off about the "value" of the union dues (which are going up significantly faster than our salaries) plus "all the great deals you get through the benefits program."If I want "deals" I will clip coupons out of the sunday paper, not pay nearly $600 per year in union dues. If NEA really wanted to provide a service - negotiate a great health insurance program, and scrap all the other crap they throw down our throats.As far as investments, they stink - a lot. Rather than endorse a single product, why not simply promote an intelligent investment philosophy that individual schools can implement. Why not come straight out and say: Annuities, sold by insurance companies, are bad nearly 100% of the time. It is important to set up options within your school that provide NO LOAD, NO SURRENDER, NO 12b-1, LOW FEE mutual funds.The reason they don't say that is it would substantially upset the partnerships they have formed with insurance companies. There is NO other reason. It is either that, or the possibility that they are so insanely stupid that they cannot recognize the difference between a good product and a ripoff. Take your pick. But in either case, it has nothing to do with the well being of individual teachers.Dan Puplava talks
The Teachers Union and Insurance Companies
The National Education Association (NEA), of which CTA is an affiliate, has an insurance company.  Is the purpose to benefit members?
CTA Job advertisement:Sales Manager -California Teachers AssociationCompany: Standard Insurance CoDescriptionIf you want to make a positive difference and stand out from the crowd, you'll fit in at The Standard (www.standard.com). Through our retirement plans and insurance products and services, we help provide people with the financial security and confidence to pursue their dreams...With operations in most states, The Standard's three thousand-plus employees enjoy a vast array of career options...In this exciting role(located either in California or Portland, Oregon) you will drive all sales activities aimed at a newly acquired, very large, and strategically critical customer, the California Teacher's Association (CTA). You will lead a team consisting of 6 Sales Representatives to drive sales growth in premium and lives, and long-term retention, focusing on life and disability products for CTA's individual members. You will partner closely with a dedicated marketing team to plan and execute marketing campaigns aimed at new enrollments, increases in existing business, and retention.You will also manage close working partnerships with CTA state and local district leadership.  This strategically visible leadership position will play a key role within a new business unit formed to support this new customer...Primary responsibilities for this position:- Provide leadership to, and manage the performance of, a dispersed, California-based team of Sales Representatives.Be responsible for meeting CTA growth and retention metrics, with a focus on collaboration and partnership with CTA leadersand Chapter and District representatives.Your team will consist of Voluntary Sales Representatives focusing on chapter-level enrollments and retention, and a District-paid Sales Representative focusing on increasing our block of business with districts who provide benefits directly to their employees.- Serve as the principle sales liaison for CTA's leaders at the state and district level to establish and grow your team's partnership, value, and trust. Act as a conduit for information to and from CTA ensuring clear expectations, understanding of sales opportunities, forecasting and other metrics.- Work with business unit leadership, marketing and other operational units within The Standard to build a cohesive sales function in support of CTA.- Partner with a dedicated marketing team to plan and execute a broad range of initiatives and programs aimed at increasing enrollments and existing business, while retaining currently enrolled members. Ensure successful execution of enrollment strategies in the field...Contact InformationContact: Not AvailablePhone: 123-456-7890Fax: 123-456-7890instantly fax your resume >>Ref ID: 6436Posted: 6/20/2008
Quit maligning teachers and unionsSan Diego Union TribuneDecember 8, 2008Letter to the editorI would like the opportunity to clarify some misconceptions people may have regarding education.The primary purpose for all unions is to prevent arbitrary mistreatment of employees by management.[Maura Larkins' note:  Mr. Wolcott would be  correct if he had changed his wording just a little:  "The primary purpose for all unions SHOULD BE to prevent arbitrary mistreatment of employees by management."Secondarily, unions represent their membership on a wide variety of issues in addition to pay...Although I am retired from the classroom, I always spent a minimum of one hour in classroom preparation every night for each of my five classes; a workday of at least 10 hours, usually longer, all without overtime pay.Aside from parents, teachers are probably the most passionate people when it comes to education. We all want what is best for our kids. At the same time, the San Diego Education Association will continue to be passionate advocates for San Diego's educators.PETER WOLCOTTSantee
Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Service code allows public and nonprofit employees to pay into tax-deferred supplemental accounts to boost their retirement nest eggs, much like 401(k) programs in the private sector.
Gail Mendes of United Teachers of Richmond has used a time-honored method of obtaining personal power: cooperating with abusive administrators like Richard Werlin.  Where is Gail's support coming from?  Perhaps from another CTA director who worked closely with the abusive Mr. Werlin: Jim Groth and his loyal friend, [former] chief CTA counsel Beverly Tucker.]
Jim Groth hoax
Gail Mendes'election in 2009
Lawsuit against CTA head counsel Beverly Tucker
Gina Boyd and Tim O'Neill forbid teacher to report wrongdoing to CVE council
SWTA (South Bay Union School District)
Coach James "Ted" Carter v. Dianna Carberry case
Past PresidentsDavid A. Sanchez (2007-2011)
Why did CTA refuse to have a local affiliate president testify in court about her actions "representing" a member?
The document below was sent in 2002 by CTA attorney Michael Hersh to Maura Larkins after Larkins subpoenaed CVE President Gina Boyd.  Why didn't Maura Larkins' representative voluntarily testify about her representation of Maura Larkins?  Why did she, instead, refuse to testify?"
San Leandro Teachers Association v. Governing Board of the San ...Oct 15, 2009 by AdminCalifornia Teachers Association, Priscilla S. Winslow, Joseph R. Colton, Beverly Tucker, Ballinger G. Kemp and Ramon E. Romero for Plaintiffs and Respondents. Michael R. Clancy and Christina C. Bleuler for California School Employees ...http://lawzilla.com/blog/
WCCSD teacher Jenny Mo
WCCSD teacher Jenny Mo
Carolyn Doggett--formerExecutive Director1995-2013  (retired in June 2013) $427,010Leonard L. (Lee) LippsAssistant Ex. Dir. $439,133Alice M. O'BrienAssoc. Ex. Dir. $390,491Joe MunozAssoc. Ex. Dir. $368,026Rebecca ZoglmanAssoc. Ex. Dir. $353,378Patricia Winslow(gone to PERB Feb. 2013)Former Associate Executive Director and Acting Chief Counsel (2012--2013)James L. Clark, Deputy  Executive Director
July 12, 2010Jim ClarkBecky Zoglman
For a very short time in 2012-2013Priscilla Winslow, Acting Chief Counseland Associate Executive DirectorLicensed to practice law in CA since 1977See Moraga child molestation case2010-2012--Assistant Chief CounselJune 3, 2011: The Legal Department, including both Emma Leheny and Priscilla Winslow has kept the committee current on the Reed Lawsuit concerning RIFs2008 Acting Chief Counsel after Beverly Tucker retired
Priscilla Winslow
San Diego Education Report Blog
SITE MAP
Why This WebsiteStutz Artiano Shinoff & Holtz v. Maura Larkins defamationSDCOECVESDCastle Park Elementary SchoolLaw EnforcementCTACVEStutz Artiano Shinoff & HoltzSilence is GoldenSchools and ViolenceOffice Admin HearingsLarkins OAH Hearing
HOME
CTA-approved lawyerMarianne ReinholdReich Adell & Cvitan3550 Wilshire Blvd #2000Los Angeles, CA, 90010
My concern is that my union, the California Teachers Association, is far from democratic.  I know that other unions do a much better job at democracy, and I believe that these institutions deserve to have a strong voice in government.  I am concerned that CTA officials often work better with insiders in both the union and school district offices than they do with the teachers they are supposed to represent.  Also, I believe that voters want school boards to care about students first, and to evaluate teachers based on performance, not politics.--Maura Larkins11/06/08
CTA  forbids member to make complaint about unethical behavior:
Teachers Association of Long Beach versus CTA ex-president Barbara Kerr
A hacker placed a black box in the middle of a document on this page (see bottom of page).
Joyce Abrams and Joyce Abrams' PERB decision
Digging up dirt
Teachers abusing students
CTA locals--Gail Mendes
California Teachers Association (CTA)
Site map for CTA--California Teachers Association
[Maura Larkins comment: normally this wouldn't be news, since CTA officers tend to be automatically reelected. However, in 2009 there was an unexpected deviation in the pattern of automatic promotion of the top three executive officers to the "elected" position one step above. Secretary treasurer Daniel Vaughn was ousted by Gail Mendes in March 2009, and many members wanted to contest Mendes' transition to vice-president in 2011 (blog post).  Many were sorry they voted for Mendes because they had intended their votes as a token of protest, and never expected Daniel Vaughn to lose.
2009 CTA election: Gail Mendes voted CTA secretary/treasurerFrom CTA websiteCTA's State Council of Education elected San Pablo elementary teacher Gail Mendes as secretary-treasurer. Mendes, who is past president of United Teachers of Richmond, [taught] fourth grade at Bayview Elementary School. A veteran educator for more than 30 years, Mendes has also taught preschool, special education and adult education... Mendes will assume office on June 26.
<< < Ms. Kelly Angell (now Minnehan) was the lawyer for Chula Vista Elementary School District, which refused to investigate bizarre antics by powerful teachers at Castle Park Elementary School, leading to a virtual meltdown of the school.  Larkins was fired for refusing to go back to work after extreme harassment by a group of teachers.  In 2004 the district transferred several of the teachers involved in the harassment of Larkins in a belated attempt to restore law and order at the school.  The bullies who were transferred showed no appreciation for the $100,000s of tax dollars the district had spent defending them.  CTA wished to protect the bullies from responsibility for their actions.  One of the ringleaders, Peg Myers, is now NEA alternate director (see above) and president of Chula Vista Educators.
Blog posts CTA
Legal department
Ethics Complaint
Carlos Perez GLS AttorneyReich, Adell & CvitanRichard Schwab GLS Attorney Trygstad, Schwab & Trygstad
President  Dean Vogel (2011-2015)
PresidentDean Vogel (2011-2015)
PresidentEric Heins
Secretary-Treasurer Mikki Cichocki
Vice President Eric C. Heins
2011 CTA election: Gail Mendes voted out as vice president; replaced by Eric HeinsIn a very unusual step, but a wise one, CTA tossed out Gail Mendes in 2011.  She was close to Rick Werlin.  Normally, succession is automatic to the office of vice president once a person has become secretary-treasurer of CTA.
Board of Directors
Justices Weigh Public-Sector Unions' Political FeesBy Mark WalshEducation WeekJanuary 10, 2012The U.S. Supreme Court appeared inclined on Tuesday to rule against public-employee unions by requiring that they provide nonmembers with additional opportunities to object to special assessments or dues increases to fund political goals.But members of the court also are weighing whether the case before it is moot—a question that dominated roughly half of the oral argument in Knox v. Service Employees International Union, Local 1000 (No. 10-1121).The case involves the intricate area of labor law involving "agency fees," or service fees, that public-employee unions charge non-union members for collective-bargaining benefits and other permissible costs. Several of the Supreme Court's key precedents in this area involved teachers' unions, though the case argued Tuesday involves a unit of the SEIU that represents California state government employees.The Supreme Court has sided with anti-union forces on related issues in several recent cases, and the new case could be highly relevant as teachers' unions and other public-employee labor organization gear up to respond to state legislative measures aimed at curbing their collective-bargaining rights. The National Education Association has filed a friend-of-the-court brief on the SEIU's side, as has the AFL-CIO, of which the American Federation of Teachers is a member.The SEIU case involves a 2005 special assessment—or temporary dues increase, as the union characterizes it—charged to union members and non-members alike for certain political activities, including to fight two anti-union ballot measures backed by then-California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.The union approved the "Political Fight-Back Fund" for what one union document called "a broad range of political expenses, including television and radio advertising, direct mail, voter registration, voter education, and get out the vote activities in our work sites and in our communities across California."Those who refuse to join public-employee unions must still pay "fair share" or agency fees because they benefit from collective bargaining. Under a 1986 Supreme Court decision known as Chicago Teachers Union v. Hudson, public-sector unions must provide an accounting to non-members and give them the chance to object to political spending or other non-bargaining-related costs (and thus not pay for them).In its June 2005 "Hudson notice," the SEIU local reported that those nonmembers who objected to paying for costs that could not properly be charged to them would pay 56.35 percent of the full dues rate as their fair share fee. The union's full dues rate was 1 percent of gross income.In September 2005, the union approved the temporary dues increase to 1.25 percent of gross income. It did not provide an additional Hudson notice to nonmembers, and it continued to charge objectors the same proportion of dues as before the increase. The union considered that some of the additional money raised would go for political activities and some for collective-bargaining. The next year's accounting under Hudson determined that only about one-quarter of the increase went for chargeable collective-bargaining expenses, meaning that the objectors got some of their money back.Later that year, some non-members filed a class action backed by the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation, based in Springfield, Va. They argued that the special assessment was unconstitutional in the absence of a new Hudson notice and a chance to object to any political spending.A federal district court ruled largely for the non-members, but a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit, in San Francisco, held in 2010 that the June 2005 Hudson notice was sufficient to protect nonmembers' First Amendment right of association. The panel also held that not all political expenses would automatically be non-chargeable to objectors, and that one of the California ballot propositions was sufficiently related to collective bargaining to allow the spending to fight it to be chargeable.After the Supreme Court granted review of that decision last year, the SEIU decided to offer non-members a 100 percent refund of the temporary dues increase. That meant the case was now moot, the union argued, because the class had received all of the relief it had sought in its suit.Not so fast, said the National Right to Work Foundation. The "eleventh-hour" move "is a classic attempt to manipulate the [Supreme] Court's jurisdiction to insulate a favorable decision from review," the group said in court papers.The mootness issue was clearly on the minds of several of the justices during oral arguments on Tuesday."Why did you give up once the case was granted here?" Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. asked of the lawyer representing the union, Jeremiah A. Collins, of Washington. Collins said the union's leadership, which has changed since 2005, "thought about the situation and came to the realization that they have no stake in the procedures that are at issue here. This is a local that had never done a mid-year increase in the past."William J. Young of the National Right to Work group, says the case is not moot because "the union would be free to return to its old ways."The union made this wonderful and meaningful policy change" and "this argument was not raised until we were before this court," Young said.On the merits, Young said, "We believe a that a new Hudson notice is required whenever there is a material alteration in the obligations that are imposed upon non-members."Collins said challenges to special dues increases have been rare, and thus the need for special Hudson notices have been a "non-event in the real world.""What we have here is ... a temporary dues increase which became permanent and which simply increased the total flow of dues and fees into the general treasury and which went for the usual, the kinds of activities the union had always funded," Collins said.Justice Sonia Sotomayor wondered why an extra Hudson notice would be burdensome for the union. Collins said each notice could lead to disputes and litigation and add to the union's costs.Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. flipped the situation on the union, asking Collins what would happen if the proponents of the anti-labor ballot initiatives came to the SEIU seeking an interest-free loan "because we want to use this money to persuade the electorate to enact these, but don't worry, because we're going to pay it back right after the election, when we've achieved our electoral ends. Would the union provide the money because it's all going to come out in the wash?"Collins appeared dumbfounded, saying, "I really can't answer the question. I don't know.""Well, gee, I really doubt that it would," Alito said.Justice Anthony M. Kennedy jumped on Collins as well."You're taking someone's money contrary to that person's conscience," Kennedy said. "And that's what the First Amendment stands against."Kennedy said the high court should consider whether an "opt in" requirement would be preferable to the current system. The idea of reversing the status quo—having non-members opt in to paying fees, rather than requiring objectors to opt out each year—is anathema to public-employee unions. Because the current system requires affirmative action on the part of objecting non-members, it is usually just a minority who object to their agency fees. (Only 10.5 percent of non-members objected to the SEIU local's 2006 Hudson notice.)Justice Stephen G. Breyer appeared most sympathetic to the union's position."The virtue of the present system" is that while it may result in some objectors making "forced loans" to the unions, "it does wash out in the wash, and it ends up being fair to the objectors," he said. "And it's simply hard to think of a better system that doesn't provide more administrative problems than the existing one."A decision in the case is expected by late June.
Late 2012Emma Leheny leaves her job as head counsel at CTA; Priscilla Winslow steps in again as temp chief counselI discovered the following on the CTA website:"The Legal Services Division is directed by AssociateExecutive Director and Acting Chief Counsel PriscillaWinslow."Priscilla Winslow also acted as temporary Chief Counselwhen previous head counsel Beverly Tucker retired in2008.  Then Winslow went back to being Assistant ChiefCounsel.  On behalf of CTA, Winslow represented childmolester Charles Bateman, helping him keep his credentialfor six years.  CTA spent far more on  Bateman than it wasobliged to spend.  CTA has refused to pay to defend teachers who refuse to be quiet about illegal actions by union officials and school administrators who are in league with them.  (See next news item below.)Leheny is still listed by the State Bar Association as working for CTA.
San Diego Education Report
SDER
San Diego Education Report
SDER
SDER
SDER
CTA local indemnifies a school district (Jurupa Unified)Why on earth would a union promise to pay an employer for all legal costs if an employee sued?I would guess that there is some behind the scenes dealing between the union and the district that benefits the personal agendas of both  union and district hot shots.  Teachers, students and the law are clearly not the priority.
Albert Truitt molestation case
Fred Kamper molestation case
2010-2011 Board of DirectorsDean E. Vogel        President       Eric Heins       Vice President        Mikki Cichocki   Secretary-TreasurerLarry Allen        District ADon Dawson        District BTerri Jackson   District CDana Dillon     District DE. Toby Boyd   District EElana Davidson        District FGayle Bilek        District GGeorge Melendez        District HLeslie Littman        District IDavid Goldberg   J-LAMary Rose Ortega       J-LATheresa Montaño        District J-HEDonald L. Bridge        District KTyrone Cabell       District LKendall Vaught  District MMichael Stone  District NJose Alcala  District OJim Groth        District PKC Walsh        CTA/NEA CoordinationMarty G. Meeden   At-largeCurtis L. Washington   At-Large
CTA Board of Directors in 2011
Emma Leheny, former chief counsel Legal Services, Burlingame (April 2010)
Former Acting Chief Counsel (2012) Priscilla Winslow(gone to PERB in 2013)Burlingame OfficeJoseph R. Colton  (gone in 2011?)Laura Juran (replaced Diane Ross)Ballinger KempRamon E. RomeroSanta Fe Springs Office11745 East Telegraph Road, Santa Fe Springs, California 90670-0153Michael D. Hersh--since 2002John F. KøhnRobert E. LindquistBrenda E. Sutton-WillsRosalind Wolf (gone in 2011?)Jean Shin (working in 2011)
2010 CTA  Department of Legal ServicesChief Counsel Alice O'BrienAssistant Chief Counsel Priscilla Winslow
FEB. 2013Emma Leheny is back as CTA chief counsel!CTA head counsel Emma LehenyThe California Teachers Association's websitehas (once again) been changed to say,"The Legal Services Division is directedby Chief Counsel Emma Leheny."Emma Leheny recently stepped away from the helm of CTA's Legal Services, apparently during some kind of a power play by Priscilla Winslow (perhaps with the assistance of former head counsel Beverly Tucker and Executive Director Carolyn Doggett?)It looks like Governor Jerry Brown stepped in to help.He appointed Priscilla Winslow to PERB, the Public Employee Relations Board.Now that Winslow has gone to PERB, Emma Leheny has resumed her position.
FEB. 2013Priscilla Winslow appointed to PERB Board
Emma LehenyChief counsel
2010-2012 and 2013 until promoted to executive office
I have been a member for 15 years403(b) Forum bWise Forums   Jul 12 2007I have been president of our local association and chief negotiator.However, I too am very frustrated with this entire "Members Benefits" program. I am not saying there is never a deal to be had via this program, but as often (or more often) the "deals" they list are not that great. They can construct the paperwork any way they want, but to say that Members benefits is 100% seperate from NEA is just not true. THere is no way that they are just doing this out of the goodness of their hearts - they do it to make money, plain and simple. I joined the union for one reason, the representation in negotiating a contract to work under, and the continued support to uphold those conditions.
A. Eugene Huguenin--Formerly in Burlingame office--Huguenin became a PERB board member.Huguenin is Facebook friends with Tim O'Neill, former CVE exec. dir. who violated teacher rights
"These days [Dan Puplava] runs a 403(b) plan he devised for San Diego County’s Office of Education..."Costly LessonsForbes MagazineApril 25, 2005"...Mutual back-scratching between insurers and unions is ubiquitous with 403(b)s, says DanielPuplava, who soldthe NEA’s Valuebuilder in California when it wasrun by Nationwide.“When I did work at theunion, I had to pay for tables, provide doorprizes and dine labor people to market in their territory,” he says. “I felt like a whore.”"These days he runs a 403(b) plan he devisedfor San Diego County’s Office of Education..."[Blogger's note: Puplava was exposed by the San Diego Union-Tribune as receiving $325,000 outside income a year while he was running the SDCOE program.  From what I know ofSDCOE, it's deeply corrupt.  What's worse is that it is part of government.  Taxpayers have no choice; they participate whetherthey want to or not.]
Executive Director Joe NuñezJuly 2013--Former Santa Maria teacher and CTA Governmental Relations Director
IN CHARGE OF POLICY:Executive director and legal department(not "elected" officials)
Teachers and healthcare
A new policy maker at CTA:Joe Nuñez, executive directorJoe and chief counsel Emma Leheny will be setting policy for executive officers Dean, Eric and Mikki.  They will promote it with their hearts and souls.
January 2014
California Teachers Assoc.Director Jim Groth--see also Jim Groth's hoax grievance
More than 10 years later, hackers are still trying to conceal the 2001 actions of CTA director Jim Groth, asst. superintendent Richard Werlin and board members at  Chula Vista Elementary School District.
This site has been hacked again by friends of CTA.  This time the mysterious black box does not quite cover the targeted image.
Elected officials 2015-19New PresidentBURLINGAME – A new CTA leadership team takes office today as Pittsburg elementary teacherEric C. Heins begins a two-yearterm as 55th president of the 325,000-member CTA.Vice President California State University, Northridge, professor Theresa Montañobecomes CTA vice-president.Secretary-TreasurerLos Angles elementary teacher David Goldberg takes the reigns [sic--reins?] as CTA Secretary-Treasurer.June 26, 2015
Policy is determined by top administrators,not elected officials, and the pay scale reflects itCTA executive director   Joe Nunez         $460,000Assoc. Exec. Dir.              Emma Leheny  $480,000Deputy Exec. Dir.             Karen Kyhn       $427,000ElectedCTA president (2015--19)           Eric Heins          $317,000
News, information and ideas about our education systemby Maura Larkins
Elected officials leaving office June 2015
Governor Brown Announces AppointmentsImperial Valley News        7 February 2018Priscilla S. Winslow, 65, of Berkeley, has been reappointed to the California Public Employment Relations Board, where she has served since 2013 and served as legal advisor from 2012 to 2013 and from 1979 to 1983. Winslow served as assistant chief counsel for the California Teachers Association from 1996 to 2012, where she was a staff attorney from 1983 to 1984. She was managing partner at the Law Offices of Priscilla S. Winslow from 1986 to 1996 and an adjunct professor at the New College of California School of Law from 1984 to 1993. Winslow was an associate at Boltuch and Siegel from1984 to 1986. She is member of the American Constitution Society. Winslow earned a Juris Doctor degree from the University of California, Davis School of Law. This position requires Senate confirmation and the compensation is $147,778. Winslow is a Democrat.