Robert Colescott
Tweet this page
share on Facebook
Tuesday, 25 March 2025
Biography
Robert Colescott
Bing
Robert Colescott
Robert H. Colescott, (August 26, 1925 — June 4, 2009) was an American painter. He is known for satirical genre and crowd subjects, often conveying his exuberant, comical, or bitter reflections on being African-American. He studied with Fernand Léger in Paris. According to Askart.com and Artcyclopedia.com, his work is in many major public collections, including (in addition to the Albright-Knox) those of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Biography
Colescott developed a deep love of music early on. His mother was a pianist and his father was an accomplished classical and jazz violinist. They moved from New Orleans to Oakland, California, where Colescott was born in 1925. He took up drumming at an early age and seriously considered pursuing a career as a musician before settling instead on art. The sculptor Sargent Johnson was a family friend who was a role model to Colescott growing up. He was also a connection to the Harlem Renaissance and artwork dealing with African-American experience. In 1940, Colescott watched as the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera painted a mural at the Golden Gate International Exposition on Treasure Island near San Francisco. Colescott went on to absorb the Western art historical canon and to explore the art of Africa and  New Guinea. He would always be acutely aware what was going on in the contemporary art world. Nonetheless, these early experiences remained touchstones.
Read more
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia -	https://wn.com/Robert_Colescott
Podcasts:
Email this Page
Play all in Full Screen
Show More Related Videos
back
Most Related
Most Recent
Most Popular
Top Rated
expand screen to full width
repeat playlist
shuffle
replay video
clear playlist
restore
images
list
PLAYLIST TIME:
EXPLORE WN.com
Advanced Search
Education
Cities.com
Dubai.com
TravelAgents.com
Weather
World Photos
Cheese.com
Broadcasts.com
Metas.com
Students.com
Emissions.com
Population.com
Domaines.com
Wages.com
Help |
About WN |
Privacy Policy |
Contact |
Feedback |
Jobs |
Students |
Email this page |
Newsletter |
© WN 2025 All Rights Reserved, World News Inc
Connect:
×
×
×
Share this video with your family and friends
×