Kinetico
Home
Residential
Water Softeners
Specialty Treatment Systems
Drinking Water Systems
Commercial
Services
Schedule a Delivery
Request a Service Call
Water Problems
About
Testimonials
Latest News
Contact Us
Menu
Get Better Tasting WaterWe’re your water treatment experts – offering installation, maintenance and repairs at affordable rates.
Water Softeners
Water Filters
Drinking Water Systems
Residential
We encourage you to compare us to other water treatment companies and options.
Learn More
Commercial
We’ve been treating water for commercial and large industrial applications for decades.
Learn MoreGet a FREE Quote
Or call to speak to an expert today.
Better Water for Your Family
It is a long established fact that a reader will be distracted by the readable content of a page when looking at its layout. The point of using Lorem Ipsum is that it has a more-or-less normal distribution of letters, as opposed to using ‘Content here, content here’, making it look like readable English.
Learn More
Customer Reviews
“What a difference! I chose Kinetico because of the simplistic nature and no electric or timers. I was very much at ease with the way the representative sat down with us and talked about our water and the Kinetico system. We had a couple of companies out to test our water and to tell us about their system. I liked that Kinetico is American made and installed by Kinetico employed installers.”
David O.Kinetico Water Softener Owner
“I love my new Kinetico. We have been through two softeners since living in San Antonio. We purchased a Kinetico four years ago and have had no problems or maintenance needed. Our water is soft all the time and we don’t have the hassle of timers and electronics going out. I would highly recommend this product to everyone in need of a water softener!”
Anna B.Kinetico Customer
“I strive on getting things right the first time and I like to research my purchases before I make them. Back in March I decided Kinetico was who I was going to do business with. The owner went over my concerns step by step which assured me I’d be getting my moneys worth. He’s a true professional. It’s been a few months since they installed my water softener and I’m happy!”
Samantha K.Business Customer
PreviousNext
Kinetico Water Treatment Systems
Kinetico water softeners, filters and drinking water systems are engineered to be
economical, efficient and effective at improving the quality of your water.
Get the cleanest water on tap, it’s never been easier
Have an Expert Contact Me
Copyright © 2020 Kinetico. All rights reserved. Authorized, Independent Kinetico Dealer. Kinetico Water Dealer Pro Website by MJM Design.
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Scroll to top