Case Studies for Organizational Communication | Edited by Joann Keyton and Pamela Shockley-Zalabak | 9780195386721 | Oxford University Press Canada
Home
About Us
Higher Education
School
Reference/Trade
ELT
Contact Us
Higher Education
Catalogue Search
/ Home / Case Studies for Organizational Communication : Understanding Communication Processes
About Us
Higher Education
School
Reference/Trade
ELT
Contact Us
Catalogue Search
Communicate with Us
Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide.
Click to enlarge
Request Exam Copy
Print Price: $170.99
Format:
Paperback
400 pp.
6.1" x 9.1"
ISBN-13:9780195386721
Copyright Year:2010
Imprint: OUP US
Case Studies for Organizational Communication
Understanding Communication Processes, Third Edition
Edited by Joann Keyton and Pamela Shockley-Zalabak
Case studies offer students the opportunity to explore critical incidents and develop effective strategies for resolution. Featuring the exclusive, real-life case studies of top communication scholars, Case Studies for Organizational Communication: Understanding Communication Processes, Third
Edition, employs a unique applied approach that allows students to use their knowledge of organizational communication to analyze typical organizational problems. Edited by Joann Keyton and Pamela Shockley-Zalabak, the book includes a variety of open-ended cases that encourage lively
classroom discussions. This format also provides instructors with greater flexibility in connecting case assignments to their primary text. Now in its third edition, the book is enhanced by an updated companion website (www.oup.com/us/keytonshockley) featuring instructor resources and
case studies from previous editions. Two new sections - "Organizations and Their Stakeholders" and "Organizational Crisis" - and twenty-one new readings address a variety of issues, including organizational technology, teamwork and group processes, decision-making and problem-solving, and
diversity. A flexible supplement covering a broad range of contexts and situations, Case Studies for Organizational Communication, Third Edition, is an essential resource for helping students devise successful communication strategies.
* New to the Third EditionWebsite CasesAcknowledgmentsTeacher Introduction: The Case Study Method as a Pedagogical TechniqueStudent Introduction: Using Cases to Learn About Organizational CommunicationJoann Keyton: Example Case: The SaleExample Case
AnalysisSection 1: Organizational Culture1. Marian L. Houser and Astrid Sheil: How Do You Get Anything Done Around Here?2. Christina M. Bates: Communicating and Leading Change in Organizations3. Cheryl Cockburn-Wootten, Mary Simpson, and Theodore E. Zorn: Managing a
Merger4. Jeanne S. McPherson: Incompatible IT Cultures5. Erika Kirby: Your Attitude Determines Your Altitude*6. Jessica Katz Jameson: Growing Pains*7. Ryan S. Bisel and Amber S. Messersmith: How Dare He Manage Our TalkSection 2: Organizational Technology8. Jensen
Chung: Caught in the Intranet9. Alexander Lyon: The Difficulties of Virtual Leaders10. Melinda Morris Villagran and Mary Hoffman: Knowledge Is Power11. Heather Walter: The E-Mails in the Clinic Initial Services Department*12. Craig R. Scott, Laurie K. Lewis, Jenn D. Davis, and
Scott C. D'Urso: Finding a Home for Communication TechnologiesSection 3: Teamwork and Group Processes13. Donald L. Anderson: Reorganizing Human Resources at ASP Software14. Maryanne Wanca-Thibault and Adelina Gomez: Teaming Up for Change*15. MJ Helgerson: Lessons
Learned*16. Joann Keyton: Taking ChargeSection 4: Decision Making and Problem Solving17. Stuart L. Esrock, Joy L. Hart, and Greg B. Leichty: How Much Does Passion Count?18. Michael L. Kramer: Permission to Walk19. Nancy M. Schullery and Melissa K. Gibson: For the Good
of Many20. Paaige K. Turner and Robert L. Krizek: A Matter of Perspective21. Mary E. Vielhaber: The Expert Facilitator*22. Astrid Sheil and Heather Gearhart: Corporate Social Responsibility v. GreenwashingSection 5: The Individual and the Organization23. Erica L.
Kirby: Bob's Dilemma24. Shawn D. Long: Working Without Papers25. Steve May: Corporate Counseling26. Caryn E. Medved and Julie Apker: Managing Multiple Roles27. Linda Dickmeyer and Scott Dickmeyer: No Laughing Matter28. Joy Koesten: Not on my Sabbath*29. Christine E.
Cooper: The Aggrieved Mediator*30. Colleen E. Arendt: An Officer First and a Nurse Second*31. Leslie Reynard: Finding the Right Associate*32. Elayne Shapiro: Conflict Around Performance Reviews*33. Lori J. Joseph: There's a New Sheriff in Town*34. Carol B. Mills: Resisting
DisabilitySection 6: Organizational Diversity35. Cynthia Irizarry: Where Does It Hurt?36. Mary Meares and John Oetzel: A Case of Mistreatment at Work?37. Diane Kay Sloan: The Penis People38. Sarah J. Tracy: Navigating the Limits of a Smile*39. Aparna Hebbani:
Putting My Best Foot Forward*40. Andrew J. Critchfield: Berating the (Japanese) Bow*41. Shawn Long: Islamophobia at WorkSection 7: Organizations and Their Stakeholders*42. Stephen C. Yungbluth and Zachary P. Hart: Inviting Public Input*43. Patty C. Malone and Keri K.
Stephens: Give Me Information or I'll Blog*44. Rod Troester: Community Civility*45. Carlos E. Balhana and Deanna F. Womack: The Sago Mine DisasterSection 8: Organizational Crisis*46. Amanda M. Gunn: More Questions Than Answers*47. Alexander Lyon and Robert R. Ulmer:
Ethics in Big Pharma*48. Beth Eschenfelder: Forced Collaboration
About the EditorsAbout the ContributorsDetailed Case Content Index
There are no Instructor/Student Resources available at this time.
Joann Keyton is Professor of Communication at North Carolina State University.  Pamela Shockley-Zalabak is Professor of Communication and Chancellor at the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs.
Making Sense in the Social Sciences - Margot Northey, Lorne Tepperman and Patrizia Albanese
Please check back for the special features of this book.
Higher Education
OUP.com
Accessibility
Legal
Feedback
How to Order
Want to Write for Oxford?
Login
Returns Policy
Permissions Requests
Site Map
Privacy
Cookie
Content and Graphics © Oxford University Press, 2007-2025. All rights reserved.