The Tokyo Electric Power Company Company Profile, Information, Business Description, History, Background Information on The Tokyo Electric Power Company
Toggle navigation
Encyclopedia
Encyclopedia of Small Business
Encyclopedia of Business
Encyclopedia of American Industries
Encyclopedia of Management
Other
Business Plans
Trademark Encyclopedia
History
Business Biographies
Company Histories
Company Histories Part 2
Leading American Businesses
Forum
Home
Company Histories
Th-Ul
The Tokyo Electric Power Company Company Profile, Information, Business Description, History, Background Information on The Tokyo Electric Power Company
The Tokyo Electric Power Company
1-3, Uchisaiwai-cho, 1-chome
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8560
Japan Telephone: (+03) 4216-1111
Fax: (+03) 4216-2539
Web site: http://www.tepco.co.jp
Public Company
Incorporated:
1951
Employees:
51,694
Sales:
¥5.05 trillion ($45.9 billion) (2004)
Stock Exchanges:
Tokyo Osaka Nagoya Niigata
Ticker Symbol:
TKECF
NAIC:
221111 Hydroelectric Power Generation; 221112 Fossil Fuel Electric Power
Generation; 221113 Nuclear Electric Power Generation; 221119 Other
Electric Power Generation; 221121 Electric Bulk Power Transmission and
Control; 221122 Electric Power Distribution
The Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) is one of the world's
largest electric utility companies. Japan has ten major regional power
companies but TEPCO alone supplies approximately one-third of
Japan's electricity. In fiscal year 2004, the company distributed
286.7 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity to 28 million
industrial, commercial, and individual customers in Tokyo and the
surrounding area. TEPCO's total generating capacity is nearly
63,000 megawatts (MW). It has 190 thermal, nuclear, hydro, and wind power
plants in its arsenal. Deregulation of Japan's electric market
began in 1995 and since that time TEPCO has been diversifying its
holdings. The company is also working to restore public faith in nuclear
power after a scandal in 2002 forced the temporary shutdown of its 17
nuclear power plants.
Early History
TEPCO has its roots in Japan's first electric utility, Tokyo
Electric Lighting Company, which emerged in the mid-1880s, although TEPCO
dates its incorporation from 1951, the year in which the Japanese electric
power industry returned to private ownership after government monopoly
control during World War II.
Even as the world's first public power stations were being
established in London and New York in 1882, the Meiji government, in its
effort to modernize Japan, formed an Institute of Technology. English and
other foreign experts were invited to Tokyo to train the Japanese in the
technology. In November 1885, Tokyo Electric Lighting Company used a
Japanese-made portable generator to light 40 incandescent lamps in the
Bank of Tokyo. Regular service began the following year when the company,
capitalized at ¥200,000, was granted a charter to generate and
distribute electricity and sell lighting accessories. A coal-fired thermal
station, generating 25 kilowatts (kW), began operating in November 1887.
By 1892, 14,100 lamps had been installed in post offices, banks,
ministries, and Japan's first modern factories.
Tokyo Electric Lighting Company used thermal plants because coal was
plentiful; the only other domestic energy resource, major river systems,
was beyond the range of its primitive transmission technology.
Hydroelectric power generation, introduced by the city of Kyoto in 1891,
would become Japan's leading prewar electricity source, but was
available to Tokyo only over long-distance trunk lines.
The company began to consolidate neighborhood thermal plants and by 1897
had ten units in Asakusa Kuramae power station, aggregating a capacity of
2,390 kW. Distribution efficiency improved in 1907 with 55 kilovolts (kV)
transmission. By 1911, the company was also making tungsten bulbs.
Industry Law Takes Effect in 1911
The government consolidated ad hoc legislation over the rapidly growing
industry by enacting an Electric Utility Industry Law in 1911. From then
on, power plants had to be licensed, and regulation began providing for
common use of transmission lines. War, too, had become a spur to growth.
The Sino-Japanese war of 1894 to 1895 boosted Japanese industry with its
procurement demands. At the same time, tramcar systems proliferated in
Tokyo and other Japanese cities.
Following the 1904 to 1905 Russo-Japanese War, the government promoted
heavy industry, and the electric power industry also grew rapidly,
becoming second only to banks in terms of capital. Tokyo Electric Lighting
Company, now able to draw power from hydroelectric stations in the
hinterland, remained the largest utility in the country even as the number
of generating and distribution companies rose from 11 in 1892 to 1,752 by
1915. Its service region encompassed the political capital, a major
university center, and a burgeoning of satellite heavy-and
light-industrial complexes and their international trading ports.
Japan was allied with Britain and France in World War I. While British and
French industries were occupied in war production, exports of Japanese
light-industrial goods to Europe soared, notably raw silk but also tea,
toys, household utensils, and machine parts. In 1925, the total number of
companies in the electricity utility field peaked at around 3,000.
In September 1923, however, there came a huge setback, the Great Kanto
Earthquake, accompanied by fires which destroyed much of Tokyo and
Yokohama. International aid poured in and the restoring of utilities was
given the highest priority. By 1924, the company was again moving forward
in the development of a national grid among Japanese companies importing
American equipment which produced current at 50 hertz (Hz). Companies in
western Japan, including Osaka, had opted for German equipment, delivering
60Hz. New transmission technology could deliver and convert hydroelectric
power from the hinter-land mountain regions. This began the wide area
electric power exchange system, which continues to overcome power
shortages in the Tokyo region.
In the 1920s, Europe was again producing light-industrial goods, and the
Japanese economy slid into severe depression. Japan's leading
export, raw silk, slumped by more than half. There was fierce competition
in the electric power industry. In some cases, three power companies
supplied a single customer at different times of the day. Tokyo Electric
Lighting Company began absorbing bankrupt competitors during an industry
shake-out.
By 1928, it was the largest of the Big Five utilities operating the
self-regulating Electric Power Control Council. In general, Japan's
industries were adopting the cartel system in an effort to stabilize the
marketplace. At the same time, militarist factions were turning the nation
toward war in mainland China. By 1932, the government began enforcing a
revised Electric Utility Industry Law. This gave the bureaucrats the final
say on rates, company mergers, and even expropriation of utilities for
military production.
State Control in the Late 1930s and Early 1940s
By 1937, governments increasingly dominated by personalities wanting to
emulate the German and Italian imperialist regimes had led Japan into
full-scale war against China. Tokyo Electric Lighting Company, along with
the rest of the industry, came under state control in 1938. The core
legislation established the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company (JEGTCO) or Nippon Hasso Den. The Electric Utility Bureau of the
Ministry of Communications supervised the industry. The Japanese
government wanted to ensure an abundant supply of cheap electricity for
military production. Government permission was required for rate levels,
building new power stations, or installing transmission lines. Tokyo
Electric Lighting Company was at that time a component of what was, in
effect, one of the largest electricity companies in the world.
By 1942, the framework for exerting state control over the electric power
industry was firmly in place. In 1943, the task of supervision passed to
the Electric Power Office of the Ministry of Munitions. The industry thus
became part of the mobilization for global war. Hydroelectric power
development took priority, and 17 new plants were built on river systems
across the country. The Tokyo region could use only coal-fired thermal
plants locally. The military planning brought a national grid closer to
reality, and Tokyo and most of eastern Japan was standardized on 50Hz
current while western Japan used 60Hz. At the same time, military
intervention had, in fact, slowed down development in the utility
industry. In the four years before World War II, electricity production
capacity had been increasing at an annual rate of 600 MW. During the war
years, annual growth in capacity declined to an average 170 MW.
Postwar Occupation
When Japan surrendered in 1945, Tokyo had been bombed and burned to
rubble. Facilities of the former Tokyo Electric Lighting Company
represented a large proportion of the 44 percent of thermal power plant
capacity that had been destroyed nationwide. The JEGTCO monopoly was
transferred to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, forerunner of the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI). The American-led
military occupation authorities of Japan initially intended to return the
nation to the level of an agricultural economy. By August 1946, surviving
equipment in some 20 war-damaged thermal power plants had been included
among factory machinery which was to be shipped to Asian countries invaded
by Japan in part-payment of war reparations.
The national industrial base had been almost halved by air-raid
destruction, and, with the munitions factories closed, Japan started out
anew in 1945 with a surplus of electric power capacity to demand. With
their legendary energy, however, the Japanese began to reconstruct
factories from whatever machinery was available. As early as 1946,
electric power demand increased by 25 percent and rose by an average of 10
percent for the next several years.
Company Perspectives:
Our group management principle is to contribute to the realization of
affluent living and a pleasant environment by offering optimal energy
services. The TEPCO group promotes this management principle, and
strives to become the top energy service provider in line with the
following three group management guidelines: win the trust of society;
survive the struggle in competition; and foster people and
technologies.
The Allied occupation at first refused to allow new capacity to be added,
fearing that this might be a first step toward rearmament. By 1948, the
JEGTCO monopoly was targeted for breakup, along with other industrial and
financial concentrations such as the
zaibatsu
. Just how this was to be accomplished became a heated
issue between the Japanese leaders and the Allied occupation planners,
who debated whether centralized state control should continue or utilities
should return to private ownership. The situation was complicated by the
rising power of unions encouraged by occupation policies. Paradoxically,
unions in the electric power industry tended to favor state control for
job security, and from 1946 often-violent strikes began with the aim of
ensuring a future for domestic coal fuel, among other issues.
The Cold War began to change U.S. priorities for Japan: to support the
strategy of containing Stalinist communism, it was becoming more desirable
to have an industrially strong Japan with at least a military capability
for self-defense. One of the most influential Japanese voices regarding
electricity utility reform proved to be that of Yasuzaemon Matsunaga. This
Meiji era entrepreneur was an important link between the prewar Tokyo
Electric Lighting Company and the TEPCO that emerged in 1951. He had no
direct business ties to the Tokyo utility but was a role model for
Kazutaka Kikawada, who became TEPCO president during the high-growth
economic breakthrough of the 1960s.
Matsunaga had prospered in western Japanese electric utilities and
electric railways early in the century. By 1924, he was president of the
Japan Electric Association. He opposed the military takeover, and when the
JEGTCO monopoly was imposed in 1938 he retired to private life. In the
postwar debate over future policy, he championed the private enterprise
solution and his views prevailed.
TEPCO Begins Operation in 1951
While the debate continued, in May 1949 the MITI was established, and its
Agency of Natural Resources assumed control of utilities. Finally, on
November 24, 1950, the government invoked occupation powers to force
reform legislation through parliament. From December 1950, a Public
Utilities Commission comprising businessmen and academics, free of
political control, divided the nation into nine regions, each with a
privately owned electric power company, to begin operating in May 1951.
TEPCO assumed the assets and liabilities of JEGTCO in the Tokyo region,
including a subsidiary, the Kanto Power Distribution Company.
The Korean War had been underway since June 1950, and from its inception
TEPCO played a leading role in supplying power to a still-occupied and
capital-starved Japan. TEPCO relied on power transferred from distant
hydroelectric stations for 80 percent of the supply for the Tokyo region.
The Korean War was the first of a succession of unforeseen circumstances
fostering the Japanese economic miracle. It stimulated the first postwar
boom because Japan was the main rear-base for American-led United Nations
forces turning back the invasion of South Korea by communist North Korea.
The extent to which U.S. policy toward Japan had been reversed is
indicated by the fact that in April 1952 MITI was permitted to exclude
thermal power station equipment from the list of machinery earmarked, in
principle at least, for shipment abroad as war reparations.
TEPCO began increasing rates to profitable levels and cash flow was helped
further by an easing of the tax structure, allowing more generous
depreciation write-offs. What was emerging was the uniquely Japanese
modification of classic free-enterprise capitalism based on competition
but also due consideration for overriding national goals. At an early
stage, TEPCO management gave priority to developing a new generation of
managerial talent. In-house training courses reached the level of
university education. State planning continued to have a role, especially
for ensuring stability of supply for something as crucial as energy.
While TEPCO and the other regional companies were evolving as private
enterprises, as early as 1951 Matsunaga succeeded in establishing a
Central Research Institute for the Electric Power Industry. By 1952, the
Prime Minister's Office had added an administrative Electric Power
Development Coordination Council. A government-financed Electric Power
Development Company, Ltd. (EPDC), capitalized at ¥100 billion, took
on the job of developing major new hydroelectric power stations.
The Allied occupation ended in April 1952. By November, a Federation of
Electric Power Companies had been organized and numerous symposiums and
study groups debated whether the country should limit itself to the
domestically available coal and hydroelectric energy resources. External
events were to influence the outcome once more; in particular, technology
became available from the United States and Europe, and oil became less
expensive.
Key Dates:
1886:
Tokyo Electric Lighting Company is granted a charter to generate and
distribute electricity and sell lighting accessories.
1911:
The Electric Utility Industry Law is enacted.
1938:
Tokyo Electric Lighting Company comes under state control.
1951:
TEPCO incorporates as the Japanese electric power industry returns to
private ownership.
1955:
TEPCO research laboratories begin exploring nuclear power.
1966:
Pilot nuclear power plants begin operating in Japan.
1970:
The Minami-Yokohama Thermal Power Station becomes the first in the
world to use liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Alaska.
1989:
TEPCO cable television system is established.
1995:
Changes in the Electricity Utilities Industry Law allow competition to
enter into the electricity generation and supply market.
2000:
The retail sector of Japan's electric power industry begins to
deregulate.
2002:
The company is forced to temporarily close its 17 nuclear reactors.
2005:
The retail electric power market continues to deregulate.
Studies began on the potential of nuclear power as early as 1954, although
Japan was as barren of uranium ores as it was of oil. TEPCO research
laboratories began exploring nuclear power in 1955, ahead of the
promulgation in December of that year of an Atomic Energy Basic Law to
guide the industry. In January 1956, the Prime Minister's Office
added an Atomic Energy Commission to its roster of administrative bodies.
The
Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute (JAERI), funded by both the
government and the industry, opened in the same year. A separate entity,
the Japan Atomic Power Company, followed in November 1957. TEPCO could
coordinate its nuclear future through these and other supplementary
organizations.
In 1958, the company became a founding member of the Japan Electric Power
Information Center (JEPIC), whose major purpose was to promote
technological exchanges with American and European utilities. High-voltage
transmission and bridging the disparate frequencies in the eastern and
western halves of the country became priorities. In 1959, a new Central
Electric Power Council supervised the opening of the Tadami Line, linking
the 50Hz system of TEPCO and the hydroelectric plants of the Tohoku
Electric Power Company far to the northeast of Tokyo.
In 1961, Kazutaka Kikawada became president of TEPCO. Kikawada had joined
the Tokyo Electric Lighting Company in 1926 during the depression
Japan's economy experienced at this time. He had studied economics
at Tokyo Imperial University and developed an interest in the problems of
unemployment and social welfare. He took the TEPCO helm just as Prime
Minister Hayato Ikeda was launching a program to double the national
income within a decade, boosting public spending, reducing taxes, and
lowering interest rates. Ikeda, who had become prime minister in 1960, was
disabled by cancer in 1964. By then, however, Japan had joined the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and had
developed a domestic market whose prospering consumers would underpin
manufacturing growth in the decades ahead.
Matsunaga, who had headed yet another commission planning the way forward
for utilities in 1960, had been Kikawada's entrepreneurial model.
As TEPCO president, in 1963 Kikawada also became chairman of the Keizai
Doyukai, the Japan Association of Corporate Executives. This business
association, formed in 1946, focused mainly on the appropriate role of
private enterprise in improving the quality of Japanese life in general.
It eventually became affiliated with six similar business organizations in
Europe, the United States, and Australia involved in developing a
private-sector role for easing global economic problems. Kikawada also
became chairman of an advisory Economic Council of the Economic Planning
Agency during 1966 and 1967.
Exploring New Sources of Power: 1960s–1980s
The prosperity of the 1960s brought a proliferation of electric home
appliances and air-conditioning. TEPCO's peak demand season shifted
from winter to summer, and the Tokyo region needed more and more
supplementary power. In October 1965, the 50Hz system of eastern Japan was
able for the first time to exchange power easily with the 60Hz system of
western Japan through a sophisticated frequency converter station in
central Japan. From 1963, thermal power generation had taken the lead over
hydroelectric sources nationwide. By 1973, TEPCO's long-term
development plan, applying large-scale thermal power generation
technology, had quadrupled the company's capacity of eight years
earlier.
Increasing American involvement in Vietnam throughout the 1960s accounted
in part for orders flooding into Japan.
Heavy metal and chemical industries developed rapidly. As in the Korean
War, Japan provided a major Asian support base, repairing air, land, and
sea-battle equipment and supplying many materials and services. While U.S.
industry met wartime priorities, new export markets opened for Japan,
notably in consumer electronics. TEPCO, teamed with Japan's general
trading houses (sogo shosha), began to diversify its overseas sources of
fuel. Japan was following the rest of the industrial world into an era of
oil-fired thermal power generation.
With the expansion of the coal-burning utility industry in Japan, air
pollution began to reach critical levels, and in 1967 TEPCO turned to
Indonesia for low-sulfur Minas crude oil. In 1970, its Minami-Yokohama
Thermal Power Station became the first in the world to use liquefied
natural gas (LNG), from Alaska. By 1973, coal-firing had been
discontinued. Pilot nuclear power plants had begun operating in 1966. In
1971, TEPCO began operating Japan's third boiling-water reactor
(BWR). The main supplier of the reactor and technology was General
Electric of the United States.
TEPCO located its nuclear power plants far from the crowded capital
region, on the coast of Fukushima prefecture to the north, the service
region of its longtime partner, the Tohoku Electric Power Company. By
1979, five further BWR reactors had been added to the Fukushima No. 1
complex. The company now used its own technology and contracted
construction to other Japanese corporations that were experts in the
field. Despite potential earthquake hazards that could result in
catastrophic events at nuclear power facilities, nuclear power began
gaining ascendancy, mainly to reduce air pollution. In 1970, the
government legislated severe controls on air, land, and water pollution.
An Environmental Agency on the American model emerged in 1971. The oil
crisis of 1973 to 1974 reinforced commitment to a nuclear future.
TEPCO declared a state of emergency and began shifting away from oil, a
process accelerated by the second oil crisis at the end of the 1970s.
Between 1973 and 1981, the share of nuclear fuel in the overall fuel mix
increased from 3 percent to 21 percent. LNG consumption rose from 1.4
million tons annually to 6.9 million tons. The share of oil in thermal
power generation declined from 90 percent to 56 percent. The company also
researched new coal-burning technologies, from Coal-Oil-Mixture to the
gassification of raw coal. By 1984, one major thermal power station had
been converted back to improved coal fuel, and another was planned for
1993 in a joint-venture with Tohoku Electric Power Company.
The company entered the 1990s under the leadership of Gaishi Hiraiwa.
Hiraiwa was elevated to chairman and chief executive officer in 1984.
After graduating from Tokyo Imperial University Faculty of Law, and after
briefly joining Tokyo Electric Lighting Company in 1939, he was drafted
into the army and sent to war in China. After the war, he rose to become
TEPCO's president in 1976. Hiraiwa was chairman of the Economic
Council advising the government and in December 1990 was elevated from
vice-president to chairman of the powerful Federation of Economic
Organizations (Keidanren).
Under Hiraiwa's leadership in the 1980s, TEPCO moved into the realm
of high technology applied far beyond the
boundaries of the electric power industry. In 1980, Japan adopted a Law
for Promoting Development and Introduction of Alternative Energies to Oil.
By 1991, TEPCO was operating 13 of the 17 nuclear reactors installed in
operating power stations; two more were under construction and another was
in the advanced planning stage. The Three Mile Island and Chernobyl
nuclear accidents revived popular opposition to nuclear technology in
Japan. This delayed but did not halt the development of nuclear power.
TEPCO and the government emphasized a net gain in combating conventional
pollution, which was still severe in Japan. A need for more generating
capacity became evident in the 1991 summer peak demand season when Tokyo
was close to requiring rationing.
TEPCO in the Early to Mid-1990s
At this time, TEPCO imported uranium ores from the United States, Canada,
Australia, and Niger. Specialized processing was carried out in the United
States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and France, and spent nuclear fuel was
sent to the United Kingdom and France for reprocessing. (By 2001, spent
nuclear fuel was no longer shipped abroad.) Both uranium enrichment and
spent-fuel reprocessing started to be carried out in Japan, however, and
nuclear power stations added repositories for low-level wastes. In 1991,
nuclear power accounted for 28 percent of TEPCO's total generation.
This was projected to reach 39 percent by the year 2000.
TEPCO fully considered national policy needs in its business decisions.
Since the 1970s, the main contractors for its nuclear power plants had
been Toshiba and Hitachi. To ease trade friction, equipment orders for two
new plants were switched to the General Electric Company (GEC) of the
United States. TEPCO also turned to GEC for advanced gas turbines and
generators to enhance the efficiency of thermal plants fired by LNG. In
1991, TEPCO was the world's largest user of LNG (along with
liquified petroleum gas). The LNG share in TEPCO's thermal power
fuel mix increased from 10 percent in 1973 to 56 percent in 1991. TEPCO
bought from suppliers as far afield as Alaska, Brunei, Abu Dhabi (Das
Island), Malaysia, Indonesia, and Australia. Through trading houses such
as Mitsubishi Corporation and Mitsui & Company, it seemed likely
that TEPCO would have access to Russian LNG resources on Sakhalin Island
and possibly on the Siberian mainland if Russia followed through on
invitations for shared development with Japan.
Oil had dwindled from 47 percent of TEPCO's total generating
facilities in 1970 to 21 percent in 1990, and was projected to shrink to
15 percent by 2000 even before the Gulf War provoked new concern about
supply stability. Hydroelectric power, representing 88 percent of supply
in 1952, the company's first full year of operation, leveled off at
around 9 percent; it survives for peak load demand fluctuations in a
strategy of nuclear power for "base load" and LNG for
"middle load." Coal was returned to the list of fuels in
less-polluting guises, partly because the new technologies made it
possible to begin buying American and other coals as well as Australian
coal as a trade-balancing measure.
TEPCO was heavily involved, domestically and internationally, in research
and development (R&D). In 1991 the central Engineering R&D
Administration alone had 400 staff. Already TEPCO was using new types of
chemical fuel cells for local electricity supplies and electric power
storage cells to help during peak demand, harbingers of future
alternatives. Like many Japanese corporations, TEPCO maximized the
application of its technology and expertise wherever opportunity beckoned.
In 1986, for example, when the Japanese government began to liberalize the
telecommunications market, previously monopolized by Nippon Telegraph and
Telephone Corp. (NTT), TEPCO used its expertise in computerized power grid
communications in joining with two
sogo shosha
to form Tokyo Telecommunications Network Company, Inc. (TTNet) to develop
an optical fiber digital network for facsimile, data, and public telephone
services. This led to mobile communications and, in 1989, a TEPCO cable
television system. The founding president of TTNet was Kazuo Fujimori, who
had joined TEPCO in 1951 as an engineer and had become executive
vice-president.
Research into nuclear power plant safety under earthquake conditions was
also being applied to prototype high-rise buildings which could adjust to
withstand earthquake vibrations. This was a contribution to Tokyo's
major waterfront urban redevelopment projects. In seeking to reduce peak
demand, TEPCO technologies gave Tokyo its first district air-conditioning
system using waste heat on the heat-pump principle. In some cases, the
heat was extracted from river waters warmed by factory discharge, while in
others heat was recovered from sewage beneath high-rise "new
towns." TEPCO recycled 60 percent of the copper used in power
lines. TEPCO's laboratories were researching high-temperature
industrial ceramics, superconductivity, and artificial intelligence for
computers.
During the 1990s, TEPCO was involved with major international research
projects in the United States and Europe while encouraging visits from
overseas students and scientists. TEPCO technology enabled the company to
achieve the world's lowest levels of sulfur dioxide and carbon
dioxide emissions. In addition, research revealed the photosynthesis
potential of seaweed for absorbing carbon dioxide. At the 1991 Tokyo Auto
Show, TEPCO displayed an electric car prototype that could reach 170
kilometers per hour and could drive the 500 kilometers to Osaka without a
battery recharge. Because of these wide-ranging activities, the company
began to refer to itself as the TEPCO Group. It entered international
capital markets with the issue of corporate bonds.
Challenges in the Late 1990s and Beyond
During the 1990s, the electricity industry in Japan began its deregulation
process. In 1995, changes in the Electricity Utilities Industry Law
allowed competition to enter into the electricity generation and supply
market. Then, in 1996, a wholesale electric power bidding system enabled
non-electric power companies to sell electricity to electric power
companies. In March 2000, retail sales of electricity were partially
deregulated, allowing large-lot customers—those demanding large
amounts of electricity—to choose their power supplier. The retail
sector continued the deregulation process in April 2005. This sector of
the industry accounted for nearly 60 percent of TEPCO's electricity
sales.
The intent of deregulation was to foster competition, which in turn would
lower the electricity costs in the country. The
deregulation was slow to change the Japanese industry, however, and
during 2001 TEPCO and the other regional companies still controlled 99
percent of the market. In fact, only six Japanese-based companies, other
than the original ten, supplied power to large customers, including retail
businesses and office buildings. This accounted for a mere 0.2 percent
share of the overall utility market.
During Japan's deregulation process, the nation as a whole was
suffering due to an economic downturn. Demand for electric power fell,
leaving TEPCO focused on developing new sources of income and revenue. In
1997, the company became Japan's first electric concern to sell
LNG. In addition, it stepped into the Internet service provider arena when
it partnered with several U.S. firms to create SpeedNet.
Telecommunications firm POWEREDCOM was also launched at this time in
partnership with other Japanese electric firms. In 2001, the company
announced plans to construct Vietnam's first independent power
plant.
TEPCO completed construction on the largest nuclear plant in the world in
1997. This was achieved despite public sentiment in Japan, which remained
hostile towards the development of nuclear power due to several fatal
accidents and scandals. According to a March 2000
Business Week
article, nuclear power accounted for nearly 35 percent of Japan's
electricity. In fact, for much of the 1990s, Japan's industry had
aggressively focused on shifting from expensive and polluting coal-fired
plants to nuclear power. Due to concerns over the safety of these nuclear
facilities, Japan's government was forced to rethink its expansion
efforts, cut back on its nuclear development plans, and find alternative
sources of power. Nevertheless, it hoped nuclear power would be supplying
over 40 percent of Japan's energy needs by 2011.
Despite public opposition to nuclear power, TEPCO continued to promote it
as an environmentally friendly form of energy. Disaster struck in 2002,
however, after the company admitted to falsifying safety documents related
to its nuclear facilities. Engineers had failed to report 29 incidents of
serious leaks and cracks in reactors at three of its nuclear plants during
the late 1980s and 1990s. As a consequence of these revelations, the
Japanese government ordered the temporary shutdown of TEPCO's 17
nuclear facilities. This left Tokyo in the midst of a power shortage
during the hot summer months. Three of its plants were allowed to restart
by 2003, and the remaining facilities were back online by the end of 2004.
The scandal proved costly to TEPCO, affecting its bottom line by ¥2
billion, as well as to its customers and the industry as a whole. During
the shutdown, replacement power cost nearly 50 percent more than nuclear
power, leaving its customers footing a much larger bill. At the same time,
trust in Japan's nuclear energy facilities and the companies that
supplied nuclear power was shaky at best. The government hoped to regain
consumer confidence, especially since nuclear power remained at the
forefront of the country's energy strategy.
During 2004, TEPCO launched a new management plan entitled Management
Vision 2010. A cornerstone in this new strategy was shoring up faith in
the company's nuclear program. The company also focused on
overcoming competition brought on by deregulation, developing new
technologies, and expanding into new business areas. With the nuclear
scandal behind it, TEPCO looked to the future and was determined to
restore its image as low-cost, high-quality electric power supplier.
Principal Subsidiaries
The Tokyo Electric Generation Company Ltd.; POWEREDCOM Inc. (83.8%); AT
TOKYO Corp. (52%); TEPCO Cable Television Inc. (85.4%); TEPCO Systems
Corporation; Toden Real Estate Co Inc.; Toshin Building Co. Ltd.; Toden
Kogyo Co. Ltd.; Tokyo TOSHI Service Company; Tokyo Electric Power
Environmental Engineering Company Inc.; Tokyo Electric Power Home Service
Company Ltd.; Tokyo Densetsu Service Co. Ltd.; Tokyo Living Service Co.
Ltd.; Tokyo Electric Power Services Co. Ltd.; Toden Kokoku Co. Ltd.
(80.2%); Tokyo Electric Power Company International B.V.; Pacific LNG
Shipping Ltd. (70%).
Principal Competitors
Chubu Electric Power Company Inc.; The Chugoku Electric Power Company
Inc.; The Kansai Electric Power Company Inc.
Further Reading
Battersby, Amanda, "A Spot of Bother for Tepco,"
Upstream
, February 20, 2004.
Bremner, Brian, "Tokyo's Nuclear Dilemma,"
Business Week
, March 15, 2000.
"Going Nuclear, Maybe,"
Petroleum Economist
, June 1, 2004.
"Darkness Falls on Tokyo,"
The Economist
, July 19, 2003.
Dawson, Chester, "Japan: A Nuclear Powerhouse Dims,"
Business Week
, November 15, 2004.
French, Howard W., "Tokyo Is Told: Go Nuclear or Go Dark,"
The New York Times
, April 13, 2003.
Hein, Laura E.,
Fueling Growth: The Energy Revolution and Economic Policy in Postwar
Japan
, London: Harvard University Press, 1990.
Japan Electric Power Information Center,
History of the Electric Power Industry in Japan
, Tokyo: JEPIC, 1988.
"Japan Prepares for Free-For-All,"
Power Economist
, April 1, 2000.
Morse, Andrew, "Nuclear Accident Kills 4 in Japan,"
Wall Street Journal
, August 10, 2004.
Ozaki, Robert S.,
Human Capitalism: the Japanese Enterprise System as World Model
, Tokyo: Kodansha International, 1991.
—Rowland G. Gould —update: Christina M. Stansell
User Contributions:
Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:
Name:
E-mail:
Show my email publicly
Public Comment: (50-4000 characters)
✍ Send comment
The Tokyo Electric Power Company Company Profile, Information, Business Description, History, Background Information on The Tokyo Electric Power Company forum
The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C.
The Wet Seal, Inc.
Copyright 2006 The Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.  •  Terms & Privacy  •   Website © 2025 Advameg, Inc.