TeacherSITY|teaching resources|teachers training centre delhi|professional development centre India
Member login
Username
Password
Forgot Password  | New User
Home
About Us
Why TeacherSITY
Vision
Mission
Pedagogy
Empanelment by CBSE
Core Group
Services Offered
Programs Offered
Resources
Partners
Archive
TEE
Contact Us
Pedagogy
Contructivist Teaching and Learning
CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPEMNT PROGRAM (C.P.D.)
Contructivist Teaching and Learning
By: Audrey Gray
SSTA Research Centre Report #97-07
What is Constructivism?
Constructivism  is a view of learning based on the belief that knowledge isn't a thing  that can be simply given by the teacher at the front of the room to  students in their desks. Rather, knowledge is constructed by learners  through an active, mental process of development; learners are the  builders and creators of meaning and knowledge. Constructivism draws on  the develomental work of Piaget (1977) and Kelly (1991). Twomey Fosnot  (1989) defines constructivism by reference to four principles:  learning, in an important way, depends on what we already know; new  ideas occur as we adapt and change our old ideas; learning involves  inventing ideas rather than mechanically accumulating facts; meaningful  learning occurs through rethinking old ideas and coming to new  conclusions about new ideas which conflict with our old ideas. A  productive, constructivist classroom, then, consists of  learner-centered, active instruction. In such a classroom, the teacher  provides students with experiences that allow them to hypothesize,  predict, manipulate objects, pose questions, research, investigate,  imagine, and invent. The teacher's role is to facilitate this process.
Piaget  (1977) asserts that learning occurs by an active construction of  meaning, rather than by passive recipience. He explains that when we,  as learners, encounter an experience or a situation that conflicts with  our current way of thinking, a state of disequilibrium or imbalance is  created. We must then alter our thinking to restore equilibrium or  balance. To do this, we make sense of the new information by  associating it with what we already know, that is, by attempting to  assimilate it into our existing knowledge. When we are unable to do  this, we accommodate the new information to our old way of thinking by  restructuring our present knowledge to a higher level of thinking.
Similar  to this is Kelly's theory of personal constructs (Kelly, 1991). Kelly  proposes that we look at the world through mental constructs or  patterns which we create. We develop ways of construing or  understanding the world based on our experiences. When we encounter a  new experience, we attempt to fit these patterns over the new  experience. For example, we know from experience that when we see a red  traffic light, we are supposed to stop. The point is that we create our  own ways of seeing the world in which we live; the world does not  create them for us.
Constructivist beliefs have recently been applied to teaching and learning in the classroom.
Why Is Constructivism Important?
Educational  curricula and teaching methods are changing. One component of the  current redevelopment of all subject area curricula is the change in  focus of instruction from the transmission curriculum to a  transactional curriculum. In a traditional curriculum, a teacher  transmits information to students who passively listen and acquire  facts. In a transactional curriculum, students are actively involved in  their learning to reach new understandings.
Constructivist  teaching fosters critical thinking and creates active and motivated  learners. Zemelman, Daniels, and Hyde (1993) tell us that learning in  all subject areas involves inventing and constructing new ideas. They  suggest that constructivist theory be incorporated into the curriculum,  and advocate that teachers create environments in which children can  construct their own understandings . Twomey Fosnot (1989) recommends  that a constructivist approach be used to create learners who are  autonomous, inquisitive thinkers who question, investigate, and reason.  A constructivist approach frees teachers to make decisions that will  enhance and enrich students' development" in these areas. These are  goals that are consistent with those stated by Saskatchewan Education  in the the 1984 government report, Directions, that launched the  restructuring of Saskatchewan's curricula. This demonstrates that  constructivism is evident in current educational change.
Pat  Gray, a Saskatoon teacher, has intuitively acquired a constructivist  theory of teaching English language arts over the course of his career.  While many people struggle with the concept of transactional  instruction, Pat, for many years, has been experimenting with a variety  of transactional instructional forms. Making students active agents in  their learning appears to be something that he does naturally.
A Classroom Example of Constructivist Teaching
As  a researcher of constructivist teaching, I visited Pat Gray's  classroom. His secondary language arts programme exemplified the  attributes of constructivist teaching: learner-centered instruction in  a democratic environment; active learners who build and create meaning  and knowledge; learners who hypothesize, question, investigate, imagine  and invent; learners who reflect and make associations with prior  knowledge to reach new understandings.
Colourfully  illustrated children's dictionaries, student-created serial postcards  storying imaginary holiday adventures, and visual responses to poetry  decorated the hallway leading into Pat's classroom. In the classroom  itself, an abundance of student work was displayed throughout the room.  Posted on all available bulletin board space was an uncommon and  diverse array of written and visual student productions, sometimes  several revised drafts of a written creation being exhibited to  demonstrate the process involved in the product. In one corner of the  ceiling was a compelling mobile, an imaginative and sensitive response  to literature, as evidenced by the representation of characters, Laura,  Amanda, Tom, and Jim, the characters from Tennessee Williams' The Glass  Menagerie. There they hung, delicately suspended in their own separate  worlds, connected only by a thin filament of thread, the infrangible  ties of family and past history. And at the back and center of the room  was an imposing five foot tall oak tree! With some ordinary  construction paper, marking pens, and an interesting and resourceful  treatment of various other types of art materials, an inventive group  of students had depicted an intriguing and fascinating response to To  Kill A Mockingbird . The oak tree was, in fact, a museum to house  important artifacts from the story.
A number of  years prior to this visit, I had been a guest in Pat's classroom, and  the same kind of richness of student work and activity had greeted me  at that time, and a warm image of an elementary classroom had been  brought to mind. I remember the room was filled with red geraniums in  terra cotta pots and contained round tables instead of the usual  student desks, and although the first class of the day hadn't yet  begun, the room already contained many configurations of grade nine  students with an obvious sense of ownership of the classroom as they  engaged themselves in an assortment of activities. One student busied  herself watering the geraniums while two students, contorted faces  pressed close to the aquarium glass, tried to engage the goldfish  (Oscar and Syd Fishes, I was later informed) in a conversation. At a  corner table, a huddled couple intently examined a Life magazine while  next to them, a lively group of three or four students was occupied in  transforming a rather large chunk of white bristol board into a lively  looking collage. Their teacher was surrounded by a small group of  laughing students involved in some discussion, and I remember I was  impressed by the ease and comfort with which they interacted with him,  and the affection they seemed to have for him, it being only the second  week in September and Pat being new in the school. It was obvious to me  that people enjoyed living there!
And now, as a graduate student, my research took me back to Pat's classroom where the experience, once again, was memorable.
A  class of grade ten students arranged themselves in the groups in which  they had been working the previous day. They were involved in a group  translation into contemporary English of Julius Caesar, each of five  groups translating a different act. In their attempts to modernize and  present Shakespeare's work, students were required to come to an  understanding of characters and events in the play, which would  determine verbal and nonverbal representations. Later, the students  would enact, in full costume, one scene of their choice from their  contemporary constructions, with the remainder of the scenes to be  presented in a readers' theatre. While the costumes for the enactment  would be contemporary, the students had to make decisions regarding the  most appropriate costumes for each character based on their own  interpretations of and transactions with Shakespeare's text. The  exercise was, as Pat later told me, an experience from which they would  come to an understanding of linguistic evolution and character  development. As I wandered from group to group, I encountered  interesting and often entertaining discussions as students in the  groups negotiated interpretations of Shakespearean discourse and  debated how particular characters might say their new constructions. In  the meantime, Pat was visiting each group, providing assistance where  necessary, and probing to elicit personal responses and to encourage  depth in their discussions.
"Who's your favourite character in your act?"
"Cassius".
"Tell me about Cassius. Why do you like him?
And so the conversation and the class continued.
The Constructivist Classroom
A  constructivist teacher and a constructivist classroom exhibit a number  of discernable qualities markedly different from a traditional or  direct instruction classroom. A constructivist teacher is able to  flexibly and creatively incorporate ongoing experiences in the  classroom into the negotiation and construction of lessons with small  groups and individuals. The environment is democratic, the activites  are interactive and student centered, and the students are empowered by  a teacher who operates as a facilitator/consultant.
Constructivist  classrooms are structured so that learners are immersed in experiences  within which they may engage in meaning-making inquiry, action,  imagination, invention, interaction, hypothesizing and personal  reflection. Teachers need to recognize how people use their own  experiences, prior knowledge and perceptions, as well as their physical  and interpersonal environments to construct knowledge and meaning. The  goal is to produce a democratic classroom environment that provides  meaningful learning experiences for autonomous learners.
This  perspective of learning presents an alternative view of what is  regarded as knowledge, suggesting that there may be many ways of  interpreting or understanding the world. No longer is the teacher is  seen as an expert, who knows the answers to the questions she or he has  constructed, while the students are asked to identify their teacher's  constructions rather than to construct their own meanings. In a  constructivist classroom, students are encouraged to use prior  experiences to help them form and reform interpretations. This may be  illustrated by reference to a personal response approach to literature,  a constructivist strategy first articulated by Rosenblatt (1938).  Rosenblatt (1978) argues for a personal and constructive response to  literature whereby students' own experiences and perceptions are  brought to the reading task so that in transacting with that text, the  realities and interpretations which the students construct are their  own. A reader response approach to literature rejects the idea that all  students should necessarily come to the same interpretation of a  selection of literature, that single interpretation being the teacher's  or someone else's. A reader response approach allows students to  explore variant interpretations, the teacher's own interpretation being  only one possible interpretation in the classroom.
In  a traditional classroom, an invisible and imposing, at times,  impenetrable, barrier between student and teacher exists through power  and practice. In a constructivist classroom, by contrast, the teacher  and the student share responsibility and decision making and  demonstrate mutual respect. The democratic and interactive process of a  constructivist classroom allows students to be active and autonomous  learners. Using constructivist strategies, teachers are more effective.  They are able to promote communication and create flexibility so that  the needs of all students can be met. The learning relationship in a  constructivist classroom is mutually beneficial to both students and  teachers.
A Construcivist Classroom is Student-Centered
A  Construcivist Classroom is a Student-Centered Classroom. The  student-centeredness of a constructivist classroom is clearly apparent  in a reader response approach to literature. Recognizing the  significance of the unique experiences that each reader brings to the  reading of a selection of literature, the teacher in a  response-centered approach seeks to explore the transaction between the  student and the text to promote or extract a meaningful response  (Rosenblatt, 1978). This places the student in a central position in  the classroom since exploring this transaction seems unlikely to occur  unless the teacher is willing to relinquish the traditional position of  sole authority, thereby legitimating the unique experiences that all  members of the class bring to the reading rather than just those  experiences the teacher brings. The resulting perception and effect in  the classroom is evident in students' recognition that the discussion  is a legitimate one involving questions to which nobody knows the  answer. It isn't a treasure hunting game where they are trying to guess  what is in their teacher's head, but a process that creates meaning and  knowledge.
From a constructivist perspective,  where the student is perceived as meaning-maker, teacher-centered,  text-centered and skills-oriented approaches to literature instruction  are replaced by more student-centered approaches where processes of  understanding are emphasized. In a discussion of language arts  instruction based on constructivist theories of language use and  language development, Applebee (1993) suggests that
[r]ather  than treating the subject of English as subject matter to be memorized,  a constructivist approach treats it as a body of knowledge, skills, and  strategies that must be constructed by the learner out of experiences  and interactions within the social context of the classroom. In such a  tradition, understanding a work of literature does not mean memorizing  someone else's interpretations, but constructing and elaborating upon  one's own within the constraints of the text and the conventions of the  classroom discourse community. (p. 200)
A  constructivist student-centered approach places more focus on students  learning than on teachers teaching. A traditional perspective focuses  more on teaching. From a constructivist view, knowing occurs by a  process of construction by the knower. Lindfors (1984) advises that how  we teach should originate from how students learn.
Constructivism Uses a Process Approach
What  is essentially involved in constructivist strategies and activities is  a process approach to learning. Applebee (1993) remarks that "rather  than emphasizing characteristics of the final products,  process-oriented instruction focuses on the language and  problem-solving strategies that students need to learn in order to  generate those products" (p. 5). And as students interact with their  teacher and with each other as part of either whole class activities,  small group activities, or individual activities, they practise using  language in a variety of contexts developing and honing many different  skills as they do so.
In a process approach,  Langer and Applebee (1987) explain, a context is created within which  students are able to explore new ideas and experiences. Within this  context, a teacher's role in providing information decreases and is  replaced by a "strengthened role in eliciting and supporting students'  own thinking" (p. 77) and meaning-making abilities. In a process  approach to learning,
ideas are allowed to  develop in the learner's own mind through a series of related,  supportive activities; where taking risks and generating hypotheses are  encouraged by postponing evaluation; and where new skills are learned  in supportive instructional contexts. (Langer and Applebee, 1987, p.  69)
Applebee and Langer argue that in such  contexts "students have the best chance to focus on the ideas they are  writing about and to develop more complex thinking and reasoning skills  as they defend their ideas for themselves" (p. 69).
Constructivist  activities in any subject area can range from very simple to  sophisticated and complex depending on the teacher's learning  objectives. If a teacher were to devise a construcivist activity, the  first thing that she or he would have to do is establish an educational  objective. The teacher would then need to think of a meaningful  activity which would, at the same time, help students to reach the  objective and to explore and construct knowledge based on what they're  reading and what they already bring to the activity. The teacher would  also need to reexamine the mechanics of how to run a class and would  have to entrust a lot to the
students. This is  demonstrated in the following activity involving The Prologue to the  Canterbury Tales by Geoffrey Chaucer, which Pat developed to achieve a  variety of language arts objectives.
My class  and I began by examining the linguistic evolution of the English  language including Middle English in which Geoffrey Chaucer writes. I  then provided each student with Chaucer's text in Middle English. Next,  I gave each a pronunciation guide. Finally, to the whole class, I read  the Introduction to the Prologue in Middle English, and as a class, we  translated it. I then provided a brief character sketch of each  character in the Prologue after which each student elected to join a  character group of his or her choice, for example, the squire, the  group's task being to become an expert on the particular character  which they had selected. Each group was then provided with a chart on  which they were to record the various aspects of their character's  'condicioun'. The group's next undertaking was to rehearse a dramatic  oral reading of their character's portion of the Prologue. In so doing,  each group began, with assistance when required, to come to an  understanding of their character. Then each group was expected to  thoroughly research their character in order to come to a better  understanding of the historical persona on whom Chaucer based his  literary rendering and to place that character into a social,  historical, and cultural context. The preexisting character groups were  then split up, and students were instructed to form new groups of three  or four none of which could contain more than one of the same  character. Then their task was to complete an activity called Table  Talk at the Tabard in which each group was asked to create and script a  playlet among the three or four characters, the purpose of which was to  bring to life each of the characters. By the time the students had seen  everybody else's presentation, they had at least a passing knowledge  of, and an appreciation of, all of Chaucer's characters along with the  language of Chaucer's time.
The possibilities  for constructivist activities are limitless. It is important, however,  regardless of subject area, to provide enough activities for student  choice and to encourage student-generated activities.
Constructivist  teaching is an exceptionally interesting and exciting way to teach  because students are involved in learning activites they appear to  enjoy, and much more student-teacher contact is possible. It extends  one's impact as a teacher.
Constructivist Teaching Involves Negotiation
Negotiation  is an important aspect of a constructivist classroom. It unites  teachers and students in a common purpose. Smith (1993) confirms that  negotiating curriculum means "custom-building classes every day to fit  the individuals who attend" (p. 1). Boomer (1992) explains that it is  important when negotiating for teachers to talk openly about how new  information may be learned and about constraints such as obligatory  curriculum. He comments on the meaning of negotiating the curriculum:
Negotiating  the curriculum means deliberately planning to invite students to  contribute, and to modify, the educational program, so that they will  have a real investment both in the learning journey and the outcomes.  Negotiation also means making explicit, and then confronting, the  constraints of the learning context and the non-negotiable requirements  that apply. (p. 14)
Cook (1992) explains why negotiating the curriculum with students is important:
Learners  will work harder and better, and what they learn will mean more to them  if they are discovering their own ideas, asking their own questions,  and fighting hard to answer them for themselves. They must be  educational decision makers. Out of negotiation comes a sense of  ownership in learners for the work they are to do, and therefore a  commitment to it. (p.16)
A constructivist  teacher offers his or her students options and choices in their work.  Rejecting the common practice of telling students what to do, he or she  engages their trust and
invites them to  participate in a constructivist process that allows them to be involved  in decisions about their learning. Students actively involved in their  own learning is a vital reality in a constructivist classroom. Students  may participate in the construction of the curriculum by negotiating  the themes that will be the focus of their work along with the  selection of literature from a predetermined range of literature.  Students may also participate in the design of their assignments,  although the parameters for these may be established by their teacher.  Finally, students may have some involvement in the way their  assignments are evaluated.
The Teacher in a Constructivist Classroom is a Researcher
A  crucially important aspect of a teacher's job is watching, listening,  and asking questions of students in order to learn about them and about  how they learn so that teachers may be more helpful to students.  Calkins (1986) notes that there is a thin line between research and  teaching. At the same time that we teach children, they also teach us  because they show us how they learn; we just have to carefully watch  them and listen to them . This kind of watching and listening may  contribute to a teacher's ability to use what the classroom experience  provides to help him or her create contextualized and meaningful  lessons for small groups and individuals. The ability to observe and  listen to one's students and their experiences in the classroom  contributes to his or her ability to use a constructivist approach.  Paradoxically, a constructivist approach contributes to one's ability  to observe and listen in the classroom. Thus, the process is circular.
Students and Teachers are Interactive in a Constructivist Classroom
Another  quality of a constructivist class is its interactive nature. Authenthic  student-student and student-teacher dialogue is very important in a  constructivist classroom. Belenky, Clinchy, Goldberger, and Tarule  (1986) inform us that constructivists distinguish didactic talk, when  participants report experiences but no new understanding occurs, from  real
talk where careful listening creates an  environment within which emerging ideas can grow. Perhaps this defines  the difference between teacher talk in a direct instruction classroom,  and purposeful talk by students in a student-centered constructivist  classroom where meaningful discussion occurs and meanings emerge.  Belenky et al (1986) explain that in "real talk", domination is absent,  while reciprocity, cooperation, and collaborative involvement are  prominent. Consequently, constructivist activities in the classroom  that focus on speaking and listening promote not only constructivist  thought but also important connections between teacher and students.
Organization and Management of a Constructivist Classroom are Democratic
The  organization and management of a class contribute appreciably to the  creation of a classroom environment that promotes constructivist  learning. A democratic classroom environment emphasizes shared  responsibility and decision-making. It is generally accepted that  practices which typify democratic classrooms include acknowledgement of  the importance of human experience in learning; accommodation of small  groups, individuals, and, occasionally, the whole class in instruction;  creation of an environment that supports the active involvement of  students in collaborative and empowering activities such as the  exchange of ideas and opinions, and responsibility for making decisions  about learning and for generating flexible rules; and teacher focus on  students' learning rather than on teacher performance (Lester and  Onore, 1990; McNeil, 1986; Dewey, 1916; Dewey and Bentley,1949) .  Lester and Onore (1990) suggest that the attitudes, values, and beliefs  of a teacher, specifically those related to the belief of student as  constructor of knowledge, make it possible to create a democratic  environment. A democratic classroom is self-regulating. Rather than  overtly controlling the
students, a  constructivist teacher structures the classroom so that students and  teacher can share in the control of their environment. Students are  directly involved in all matters that occur in the classroom that  affect their being there as learners and as people. However, as Lester  and Onore (1990) discovered, "changing any one aspect of a classroom,  in particular, how language is used, isn't possible without  simultaneously changing who has power and control over knowledge" (p.  5). Indeed, since student empowerment and autonomy are major goals in  constructivist teaching, changing the power structure in the classroom  is a desired course of action.
Power and Control in the Constructivist Classroom are Shared
Student  empowerment is, in fact, at the center of of a constructivist teacher's  philosophy. Like parents who, from the moment their child is born, do  everything possible to ensure that their child has the skills and  abilities to live independently of them, so a constructivist teacher,  from the moment a new set of students enters his or her classroom, does  everything he or she can to provide those students with the skills and  abilities to be confident and autonomous learners and citizens. And  like parents who take pride in their children's accomplishments but not  credit, a constructivist teacher doesn't take the glory for the  accomplishments of his or her students, but rather empowers them with a  feeling of competence and success.
Student  empowerment and autonomy may be aided by encouraging students to ask  questions and by making them active learners. Calkins (1986) laments  that in most classrooms, we neither teach students to ask questions in  schools nor allow students to ask questions, but simply require them to  answer our questions, although asking questions is a challenging and  important part of thinking and learning, especially if students are  continually encouraged to ask more probing, more appropriate, and more  effective questions. By asking their own questions, students acquire  more consciousness of and control over their thinking.
Students  having "control over their thinking" is an important matter in a  constructivist classroom. The lack of opportunity for students to ask  their own questions is a very real concern in many classrooms, and so  exploring ways of getting students to ask questions, rather than the  teacher asking all the questions, may make a significant contribution  to making students independent as language learners. The person who has  the questions not only has the answers but also the power. Power is a  key element in a constructivist classroom. Power is not wielded by a  constructivist teacher, and control is not imposed on students.  Instead, a constructivist teacher uses an indirect form of control and  empowers students by involving them, by giving them responsibility, and  by encouraging them to be self-controlling and autonomous. While the  teacher relinquishes power and control to empower the students, neither  the teacher nor the classroom is out of control. A constructivist  classroom is, in fact, highly organized. Students are given a lot of  choices within the classroom, but those choices may be contained within  parameters. Students are able to negotiate themes, but must abide by  the range of literature that their curriculum prescribes. Students may  design their own assignments, but the assignments must accommodate  curriculum variables.
The apparant paradox in  this 'constrained freedom' is highlighted by Daniel Sheridan (1993),  who comments on the use of structure in a constructivist classroom:
Structure  is one of the conditions of freedom. Yet we cannot leave it at that,  for paradoxically there can be no freedom without some element of  constraint. Thus within the structure of a learning situation there are  always some constraints--yes, even in the most apparently "free"  classroom, . . . . [S]tudents are constantly making language choices.  Still, they are not "free" in any radical or idealized sense . . .  there is a lot of structure . . . (p.116).
What  Sheridan is saying here is exemplified in a constructivist class.  Unless kids are provided with behavioural parameters, nothing gets  accomplished because they don't know what it is they're really supposed  to do. But once these behavioural parameters are established, there can  be a lot of choices within.
The paradox about  student centered instruction is the more control you turn over to the  students the less you need to worry about control, and, in fact, the  students are quite able to look after themselves and, even more, look  after each other. In a constructivist classroom, control comes from  students' involvement in responsibility rather than external  imposition, freeing the teacher to focus on students learning, a  profitable situation for both students and teachers.
Actively  and interactively involved students, negotiated curriculum, and  redistribution of power, control, and responsibility all contribute to  a relationship between students and teacher that promotes a situation  where learning thrives. With the development of a constructivist  philosophy, a teacher of any discipline is able to create a classroom  environment within which students are able to become autonomous  learners.
Constructivist classes reveal a shift  in thinking in which the underlying assumptions about what knowledge  is, about how people learn, and about what is important are different.  One can grow from a traditional view of teaching in which one seeks to  control one's subject area and students to becoming comfortable with a  subject area that is less predictable and more ambiguous. This enables  one to make the shift in thinking that may be necessary to be a  constructivist teacher. The idea that our beliefs about teaching and  learning affect our classroom practice, as well as our ability to  change our practice, is explained by Lester and Onore (1990). Support  for this idea comes from Kelly's (1991) personal construct theory.
Lester  and Onore (1990) indicate that teachers' personal beliefs about  teaching (their construct systems) account for the kinds and extents of  change that teachers are able to make. We view our situation through  the lens of our personal construct system. Our beliefs about teaching  and learning account for how we think and act as teachers.  Specifically, teachers' definitions of what knowledge is, how people  acquire it, and how we determine whether knowledge has been acquired  account for the degree and kind of change teachers will experience.
Personal  construct theory was devised by Kelly in 1955. The theory proposes  that, like scientists, we continually hypothesize about experience,  formulating expectations based on a template of reality we have created  through experience and reflection. We come to believe something through  accumulated experience about it and then interpret experience according  to those beliefs. These hypotheses, or personal constructs, may be  modified with new experiences, but some are continually reinforced and  confirmed, until, over time, they may actually shape experiences  whereas when they were developing, experience molded them. It is for  this reason, Lester and Onore (1990) believe, that beliefs and  practices about schooling are so difficult to change. They suggest that  we need to examine the constructs or beliefs that influence our  decisions about teaching and learning in order for change to occur.  They believe that by changing our beliefs about teaching and learning,  we are able to change our practice.
Lester and  Onore (1990) suggest that the main construct affecting a teacher's  ability to teach in a transactional, constructivist way is the belief  that knowledge is constructed by human beings. And so teachers would  need to make a shift in thinking and change what they believe about  knowledge in order to really change their teaching.
Lester  and Onore (1990) propose that genuine learning or change comes not from  disregarding all prior learning in order to relearn, but "from  questioning or reassessing our existing beliefs about the world" (p.  41):
Change can occur through having  experiences that present and represent alternative systems of beliefs  and trying to find a place for new experiences to fit into already held  beliefs (p. 41).
Reflecting on one's teaching  practice contributes to one's ability to cross the bridge in terms of  the way one thinks and believes about teaching. This enables him or her  to move, for example, from a transmissional instructional practice to a  constructivist and transactional one.
Reflection,  Mezirow (1990) explains, involves a critique of the assumptions on  which our beliefs have been built, and through reflection, our  perspectives are transformed.
Giroux (1986)  notes that teachers are often trained to use various models of teaching  and evaluation, yet are not taught to be critical of the assumptions  that underlie these models. He advises that teachers must be more than  technicians but transformative intellectuals engaging in a critical  dialogue among themselves.
The underlying  assumptions about teaching and learning of a constructivist and a  nonconstructivist teacher are quite different. Changing the gimmicks we  use to teach in the classroom without changing the way we think about  teaching and learning is, according to Lester and Onore (1993),  insufficient to change our practice. A complete rethinking of what  teaching and learning are is necessary if we are to really change what  happens in the classroom.
In a constructivist  classroom, teachers create situations in which the students will  question their own and each other's assumptions. In a similar way, a  constructivist teacher creates situations in which he or she is able to  challenge the assumptions upon which traditional teaching and learning  are based. Belenky, Clinchy, Goldberger, and Tarule (1986) report that  at the constructivist level of knowing and thinking, we continually  reevaluate our assumptions about knowledge; our attitude towards "the  expert" is transformed; we are not troubled by ambiguity but are  enticed by complexity; and we take on a never-ending quest for truth  and learning where truth is seen as a process of construction in which  the knower participates. A constructivist teacher's perception of  expertise in the classroom is based on the experience of his or her  students in interaction with each other and with their teacher, and his  or her ability to tolerate ambiguity is high as evidenced in the  tendency to create complexity.
Holding a  constructivist view of knowledge, Lester and Onore (1990) point out,  enables a teacher to explore and form new ideas about teaching and  learning. But the job of translating this belief into daily classroom  practice is still present. This job is often made difficult with all  that impinges on it, for example, the existing school system and its  policies, and the school culture.
Teachers are  individuals who are often drawn into teaching by a love of kids.  Constructivist teachers develop skills and abilities to empower  students and to make them feel competent and significant. Perhaps some  of what a constructivist teacher does is intuitive. Constructivist  teaching also requires intelligence, creativity, patience,  responsiveness, and the ability to live with ambiguity permitting one  to spontaneously abandon a plan in order to accommodate specific  individual or classroom situations. And while the job of being a  constructivist teacher is demanding, its value is evident in the impact  on students' learning and personal development.
Implications and Recommendations
Research  suggests that constructivist teaching is an effective way to teach. It  encourages active and meaningful learning and promotes responsibility  and autonomy. Because constructivist teaching is beneficial in  achieving desirable educational goals for students, it is important for  teachers to grow professionally towards a constructivist practice.
My  research and analysis of Pat Gray's life and career in "'The Road to  Knowledge is Always Under Construction': A Life History Journey to  Constructivist Teaching" reveal that for Pat, change to a  constructivist approach to teaching English language arts has been a  developmental process that occurred over time and involved a complete  paradigm shift. The development of Pat's constructivist practice was a  very active process during which much of the time practice preceded  theory. His story of teacher change, growth, and development  underscores an aspect of teacher development that is often ignored:  curriculum development occurs, not through imposition of new ideas on  teachers, but through personal development.
These  findings have implications for the way constructivist and transactional  curricula are implemented. They confirm that the responsibility for the  professional development of teachers falls largely on the teachers  themselves. This concept is generally recognized by teachers; however,  the incentive to pursue personal professional development over the  course of one's career is frequently lacking in teachers. For example,  the importance of collegial sharing and support is widely accepted yet  infrequently practised except informally. Similarly, teachers who are  familiar with reflective practice resist it even though they recognize  its importance in encouraging an awareness of how our students learn  and, therefore, in how we need to teach. To encourage incentive, this  research suggests that teachers need to be provided with opportunities,  resources, support, encouragement and recognition in their professional  development pursuits. They need to know that their efforts are being  supported by their colleagues, administrators and school boards.
Considering  the constructivist nature of many new curricula, it is important that  the theory and concepts of transactional and constructivist teaching be  communicated to administrators as well as teachers and student teachers  of all grades and disciplines through on going, supportive professional  development activities. The importance of administrative support for  teachers attempting transactional and constructivist strategies needs  to be communicated to school administrators through professional  literature and professional inservice.
University  instructors in colleges of education need to model constructivist  practices and provide supportive assistance to preservice and inservice  teachers as they grapple with these practices in their practicums and  internships.
Transactional and constructivist  practices may be modelled, and constructivist activities and strategies  may be presented to teachers in teacher inservices and workshops. A  discussion of the implications of such practices for teachers and  students needs to be included in these inservices. Issues and concerns  of teachers as they begin to make their transition to constructivist  teaching need to be acknowledged and addressed through discussion,  explanations of what to expect, practical suggestions, reassurance, and  supportive understanding of teachers' concerns.
Resource  information about constructivist philosophy and practices written in a  nonthreatening style that respects teachers' current personal and  practical knowledge would perhaps make personal and professional  development toward a constructivist practice appealing. Information  presented in a friendly and creative style may encourage teachers to  embark on their own professional development journeys and may encourage  teachers to be less reticent about risking innovative practices, thus  beginning a developmental process of change. Indeed, an outcome of my  study is that change is a developmental process in which practice often  precedes theory, and teachers, encouraged to attempt constructivist  practices and to be self reflective, and inspired by the success of  those practices, may, in time, acquire the philosopy that underpins  that practice.
Concluding Remarks
This  research raises some possibilities for improving educational practice  in Saskatchewan and some questions about the way professional  development has traditionally been delivered and new curricula  implemented. New curricula emphasize an holistic and constructivist  rationale, and the implementation of these new curricula necessitates  that teachers make significant changes in the way they teach. In  addition to understanding the constructivist philosophy upon which  these new curricula are based, teachers, administrators and others  involved in implementing these new curricula need to understand the  kinds of changes teachers need to undertake as they make the transition  from more traditionalist forms of instruction to constructivist  strategies as well as how they can make these changes. Generally  speaking, professional and curriculum development is an evolving,  personal developmental process that in itself is constructivist. This  process can be greatly assisted by a supportive collegial and  administrative medium that allows teachers to change their own personal  constructs about teaching.
References
Applebee,  A.N. (1993). Literature in the secondary school: Studies of curriculum  and instruction in the United States. Urbana, Il: National Council of  Teachers of English.
Belenky, M.F., Clinchy,  B.M., Goldberger, N.R., & Tarule, J.M. (1986). Women's ways of  knowing: The development of self, voice, and mind. New York: Basic  Books.
Bentley, A.F. & Dewey, J. (1949). Knowing and the known. Boston: Beacon Press.
Boomer,  G. (1992). Negotiating the curriculum. In G. Boomer, N. Lester, C.  Onore, & J. Cook (Eds.), (1992). Negotiating the curriculum:  Educating for the 21st century (pp. 4-14). London: The Falmer Press.
Calkins, L. (1986). The art of teaching writing. Portsmith, NH: Heinemann.
Chaucer,  G. The prologue to the Canterbury Tales. In C.T. Fyfe (Ed.), (1959). A  book of good poems. Vancouver: The Copp Clark Publishing company.
Cook,  J. (1992). Negotiating the curriculum: Programming for learning. In G.  Boomer, N. Lester, C. Onore, & J. Cook. (Eds.), (1992), Negotiating  the curriculum: Educating for the 21st century (pp. 15-31). London: The  Falmer Press.
Dewey, J. (1916). Democracy and education. New York: The MacMillan Company.
Giroux, H. (1986). The politics of schooling and culture. Orbit, 17 (4), 10-11.
Kelly, G.A. (1991). The psychology of personal constructs: Volume one - A theory of personality. London: Routledge.
Langer,  J. (1992). (Ed.). Literature Instruction: A focus on student response.  Urbana, Il: National Council of Teachers of English.
Langer,  J. & Applebee, A. N. (1987). How writing shapes thinking: A study  of teaching and learning. National Council of Teachers of English.
Lee, H. (1962). To kill a mockingbird. New York: Fawcett Popular Library.
Lester,  N.B. & Onore, C.S. (1990). Learning Change: One school district  meets language across the curriculum. Portsmith, NH: Boynton/Cook  Publishers.
Lindfors, J. (1984). How children learn or how teachers teach? A profound confusion. Language Arts, 61 (6), 600-606.
McNeil, L. (1986). Contradictions of control: school structure and school knowledge. New York: Routledge.
Mezirow,  J. and Associates. (1990). How critical reflection triggers  transformative learning. In J. Mezirow and Associates (1990), Fostering  critical reflection in adulthood: A guide to transformative and  emancipatory learning (1-20). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass Publishers.
Piaget,  J. (1977). The development of thought: Equilibration of cognitive  structures. (A. Rosin, Trans). New York: The Viking Press.
Rosenblatt,  L. (1978). The reader, the text, the poem: The transactional theory of  the literary work. Carbondale, Il: Southern Illinois University Press.
Rosenblatt, L. (1938). Literature as exploration . New York; London: D. Appleton- Century.
Saskatchewan Education. (1984). Directions. The Author.
Shakespeare, W. Julius Caesar. In R. Gill (Ed.), (1979), Oxford School Shakespeare. London: Oxford University Press.
Sheridan, D. (1993). Teaching secondary English: Readings and applications. New York: Longman.
Smith, K. (1993). Becoming the "guide" on the side. Educational Leadership, 51(2), 35- 37.
Twomey  Fosnot, C. (1989). Enquiring teachers, enquiring learners: A  constructivist approach for teaching. New York: Teachers College Press.
Williams, T. (1945). The glass menagerie. New York: New Directions Books.
Zemelman,  S., Daniels, H., & Hyde, A. (1993). Best practice: New standards  for teaching and learning in America's schools. Portsmouth, NH:  Heinemann.
Home   |      |   Our Programs     |   Resources   |   Partners   |  Privacy Policy   | Contact Us   |   Search Jobs
©TeacherSITY 2009. All rights reserved.