CL Dellums Station, Jack London Square, Oakland, California - Train Stations/Depots on Waymarking.com
shop
forums
waymarks
scavenger hunts
groups
categories
profile
home
Home > Categories > Category > Waymark
you are not logged in. [log in]
CL Dellums Station, Jack London Square, Oakland, California - Train Stations/Depots on Waymarking.com
View waymark gallery
CL Dellums Station, Jack London Square, Oakland, California
in Train Stations/Depots
Posted by:  SCOTUS
N 37° 47.632 W 122° 16.303
10S E 564120 N 4183194
Built in 1995, CL Dellums Station at Jack London Square in Oakland, California serves over thirty passenger trains and innumberable freight trains on a daily basis.
Waymark Code: WMRXP
Location: California, United States
Date Posted: 10/01/2006
Published By: TheBeanTeam
Views: 158
Download this waymark:
.GPX File
.LOC File
.KML File (Google Earth)
During the 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake in the San Francisco Bay Area, Oakland's then passenger rail station, located at 16th and Wood Streets, was badly damaged. Amtrak was forced to move into trailers located near the station, but wasn't allowed to access the buiilding. The city and Amtrak worked together to build CL Dellums Station, located at Jack London Square, which opened in 1995. It was only the second new railroad station to be built in California in a century. This station has seen a dramatic increase in service since it opened, and now services over thirty trains a day. Most of those are the Capitol Corridor service, running from San Jose to Sacramento (it is the origination of about 2/3 of these trains heading to the state capital). It also serves as the origination or final desitnation of eight San Joaquin trains daily, with Bakersfield being the other end of the line. Finally, it serves both the north and southbound Coast Starlight daily.The station was named for C.L. Dellums, who organized the Pullman Car Porter's Union and lived in Oakland for many years.
Is the station/depot currently used for railroad purposes?: YesIs the station/depot open to the public?: YesIf the station/depot is not being used for railroad purposes, what is it currently used for?: Yes, for it's original purpose.What rail lines does/did the station/depot serve?: Amtrak, UPStation/Depot Web Site: Not listed
Visit Instructions:Please post an original picture of the station/depot taken while you were there. Please also record how you came to be at this station/depot and any interesting information you learned about it while there.
Search for...
Geocaching.com Google MapGoogle MapsMapQuestBing MapsNearest WaymarksNearest Train Stations/DepotsNearest Geocaches
Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point
Recent Visits/Logs:
Date Logged
Log
User Rating
01/13/2008
ucdvicky visited it
View all visits/logs
iOS user? Try the Waymarkly app!
Includes the ability to log visits, view logs, save and filter offline Waymarks and use beautiful offline maps! Waymarkly is the premiere Waymarking app for iOS.
Get the Waymarkly app now
Map
Search from Here
Waymark Options
View Visits/Comments (1)View WaymarkView Gallery (6)
Advertisement
Quick Searches
Waymark Searches:
My Waymarks
Featured Waymarks
Newest Waymarks
My Unfinished Waymarks
Waymarks I've Visited
Newest Uncategorized Waymarks
My Uncategorized Waymarks
My Assisted Waymarks
Category Searches:
My Categories
Favorites
Ignore List
Largest
Newest
Requiring Review
Visit Searches:
My Visits
Group Lists:
Groups I Manage
Groups I Belong To
Newest Groups
Recruiting Groups
Scavenger Hunts:
My Scavenger Hunts
Newest Public Hunts
My Active Hunts
My Completed Hunts
Miscellaneous:
My Saved Searches
Full Category List
Copyright (c) 2025 Groundspeak, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
home
|
careers
|
news
|
terms of use
|
privacy policy
|
contact us
|
help