Saints Sign Offensive Lineman Mike Smith - Canal Street Chronicles
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Canal Street Chronicles homepage
Horizontal - White
Canal Street Chronicles
a New Orleans Saints community
Follow Canal Street Chronicles online:
Follow Canal Street Chronicles on Twitter
Follow Canal Street Chronicles on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Canal Street Chronicles main menu
Sections
Betting
Masthead
By/For Fans
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Sections
Fleur-De-Links
News
Rumors
Injuries
Schedule & Scores
Roster
Depth Chart
Betting
FanDuel NFL Odds
FanDuel Super Bowl Odds
New Orleans Saints Odds
NFL Picks and Predictions
Masthead
By/For Fans
FanPosts
Community Guidelines
About Us
Contact Us
✕
Filed under:
Saints Sign Offensive Lineman Mike Smith
By
Jon Banks
Jul 26, 2011,  3:33pm CDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Saints Sign Offensive Lineman Mike Smith
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
The Saints have now signed/negotiated their twelfth undrafted free agent. The latest is offensive tackle Mike Smith out of Nebraska. The news comes from California Strength, Smith's training company:
Congrats to our ProDay/Combine prep guys! Oregon WR Jeff Maehl headed to  the Houston Texans and NEB OT Mike Smith to the New Orleans Saints!
This makes Smith the second offensive lineman signing of the day, which helps the Saints solve their depth problem on the line. Make the jump to see his information out of Nebraska.
From the Nebraska site:
Honors & Awards
Big 12 Commissioner’s Fall Academic Honor Roll (2006, 2010)
Big 12 Commissioner’s Spring Academic Honor Roll (2010)
Mike Smith sat out his senior season after suffering a broken leg during  fall camp, but was near full health by the postseason and participated  in the East-West Shrine Game. Smith had been a mainstay on the left side  of the Nebraska offensive line in 2008 and 2009, starting 26 games at  left tackle during those seasons.  Smith earned his undergraduate degree in marketing in August of 2010, and worked on his master’s degree last fall.   2010 (Senior)  Smith suffered a broken leg early in fall camp and was sidelined for all of 2010.
2009 (Junior)   Smith played an  integral part in helping running back Roy Helu Jr. achieve a 1,000-yard  rushing season. In consecutive games to end the Big 12 North season,  Smith helped the Huskers to 214 rushing yards at Kansas, three scoring  drives versus Kansas State and a 144-yard rushing performance at  Colorado. He also helped protect the Nebraska quarterbacks, as NU ranked  in the top 40 nationally in sacks allowed.
2008 (Sophomore)   Smith won the starting  left tackle job during fall camp and started all 12 games. The offensive  line powered NU to more than 400 total yards nine times, while NU  scored at least 30 points in 10 of 13 games. Nebraska passed for at  least 200 yards in every game and ranked in the top 15 nationally in  passing offense and total offense. Smith protected the blindside of  quarterback Joe Ganz, who threw for a school-record 3,568 yards and 25  touchdowns.
2007 (Redshirt Freshman)   Smith played in all 12  games as a reserve tackle and often blocked on the perimeter. He helped  NU rank in the top 10 nationally in both total and passing offense, and  he was also utilized as a tight end in power sets. Smith was also on  NU's PAT and field-goal units.
2006 (Redshirt)   Smith came to NU as a defensive end, but redshirted in 2006 and moved to offense.
Some of Smith's draft numbers can be found at NFL Draft Scout.
Saints Negotiate Contract with Safety DeAndre McDaniel
Saints Negotiate Contract with Safety Isa Abdul-Quddus
Saints Negotiate Contract with Wide Receiver John Chiles
Saints Negotiate Contract with Wide Receiver Jarred Fayson
Saints Negotiate Contract with Wide Receiver Joe Morgan
Saints Negotiate Contract with Linebacker Jeremiha Hunter
Saints Negotiate Contract with Linebacker Kolby Hurt
Saints Negotiate Contract with Defensive Tackle Dexter Larimore
Saints Negotiate Contract with Quarterback Ryan Colburn
Saints Sign Offensive Lineman Coy Beilby
Saints Sign Cornerback Josh Gatlin
More From
Canal Street Chronicles
Miguez: Why the Saints should not trade up for Cam Ward
Getting to know new Saints DT Davon Godchaux
Fleur-de-Links, March 25: Saints add offensive line depth
PFF names Brandin Cooks as Saints’ free agent signing with the most upside
Saints re-sign DB Ugo Amadi
Saints sign former Titans LG Dillon Radunz
Most Read
Saints sign former Titans LG Dillon Radunz
Big help is on the way for New Orleans’ offensive line.
Miguez: Why the Saints should not trade up for Cam Ward
New Orleans is in no position to move up from 9 to 1.
Saints re-sign DB Ugo Amadi
The versatile defensive back inks a one-year deal to return to New Orleans for the third consecutive season.
Getting to know new Saints DE Jonah Williams
Williams comes to New Orleans on a one-year deal.
Large Saints contingent spotted at Miami’s Pro Day
All of the top New Orleans brass present as rumors of interest in Cam Ward swirl.
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook