Biographies in Nottoway County Virginia
Nottoway County,
Virginia
Genealogy and History
Volunteers Dedicated to Free Genealogy
Biographies
Booth, Edwin Gilliam
Booth, Edwin Gilliam, son of Gilliam Booth and Rebecca Hicks, his wife, was born at "Shenstone," Nottoway county, Virginia, May 11, 1810. As a boy he attended the old Wingfield Academy in Dinwiddie county, named after General Winfield Scott, and after studying a short time at Oxford, North Carolina, he entered the University of North Carolina and graduated at eighteen years of age. He then became a member of the famous law school of Judge Lomax at Fredericksburg, Virginia. He practiced
law, and acquired the largest practice in his part of the state. In 1848-49 he served in the Virginia legislature, and was made one of the revisers of the Virginia Code of Laws. Judge R. C. L. Moncure, Judge Robert E. Scott and Hon. John M. Patton were associated with him in the work. He married (first) Sally Tanner Jones, of Nottoway county, Virginia, and several years after her death and burial at "Bothwell," Dinwiddie county, Virginia, he married Henrietta Chauncey, of Philadelphia, and went there
to reside. True to his southern sympathies, he spent much money in the relief of Confederate soldiers confined in Northern prison houses. He was the author of a volume of personal reminiscences. He died, in Philadelphia, in 1886, and was interred in the Chauncey burying ground at Burlington, New Jersey, by the side of his second wife, where a handsome sarcophagus rests over husband and wife. (Source: Encyclopedia of Virginia Biography edited by Lyon Gardiner Tyler, LL. D., 1915. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Cabell Family
The illustrious Cabell family was among the earliest seated in the colony of Virginia, and the name has ever maintained its rank among the first families of the Commonwealth. The descent of the subject of this sketch is thus traced: William Cabell settled in Buckingham county, where he was succeeded by his son Joseph, and he by Joseph who was the father of Benjamin W. S. Cabell, father of George C. Benjamin W. S. Cabell, born in Buckingham county, died in Danville in Mardi, 1802, was an officer
of the war of 1812, and afterwards attained the rank of major general of State troops. He served from fifteen to twenty years in the Senate and House of Delegates of Virginia, and was a member of the famous Convention of Virginia of 1829-30. The mother of Colonel Cabell, Sallie E. Dosewell of Nottoway county, Virginia, died in Danville, in August, 1874.  In Brunswick county, Virginia, October 25, 1860, Colonel Cabell married Mary H. Baird of that county, Rev. Geo. Win. White, officiating clergyman. Their children are: Sallie D., now Mrs. L. H. Lewis; Annie A., now Mrs. G. S. Wooding; Benjamin W. S.; George C. Jr., and Powhatan A. Mrs. Cabell is the daughter of Henry R. Baird, who was reared in Person county, North Carolina, and died a resident of Brunswick county, Virginia, in April, 1887. Her mother, Ann P. Atkinson, born in Halifax county,
Virginia, died in Danville, in 1862.
George C. Cabell was born in Danville, January 25, 1837, and has lived in or near Danville all his life, living now within fifty yards of the spot where he was born. His academic education was received in Danville, after which he took the law course in the University of Virginia. He commenced practice in Danville in 1858, and was attorney for the Commonwealth for the town of Danville four years; representative in Congress twelve years. His rank was won by gallant
service in the Confederate States Army. He went into the war on April 27, 1861, and served till its close, receiving successive promotions from private to captain, major, colonel. He had five brothers, all in service, and commissioned officers, captains, colonels and one major-general. Two of these gave their life to the cause: Col". Jos. R. Cabell, killed at Drurys Bluff; Lieut. Benj. E. Cabell, died in service. Colonel Cabell is still engaged in practice in Danville.
The name of Cabell is one of frequent mention in the pages of Virginia and Virginians, many of the name having been closely associated with the history of the Commonwealth. The subject of this sketch was born in Danville, and is the son of Benjamin W. 8. Cabell, who was born in Buckingham county, Virginia, and who died in 1862, aged 69 years.
Dr. Cabell's mother was Sarah E. Dosewell, born in Nottoway county, Virginia, died in 1874. In early youth Dr. Cabell attended the schools in Danville, after which he took the course of the Virginia Military Institute, whence he was graduated in 1845. He taught school in Pittsylvania county two years, then studied medicine under Dr. W. G. Craighead of Danville and completed his studies for practice of medicine at the Virginia University, where he graduated with
honors. He was in practice for about thirty years at Callands, Pittsylvania county, but in 1886 returned to Danville, and went into the tobacco warehouse business, under the firm name and style of Cabell & Coleman, proprietors of the Cabell Warehouse, dealers in leaf tobacco. He entered the Confederate States Army in April, 1861, and served with rank of captain, Company B, 38th Virginia Infantry, until January, 1863, when he resigned. In 1849, he married Martha C. Wilson of Pittsylvania county, who died in
1858. Secondly he married Catherine F. Witcher. He line four children: Lilly, W. C., N.W. and Mary. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Campbell, George
Who made Virginia the home of his adoption in 1855, is a native of Scotland, born July 4, 1836, the son of Benjamin and Anne (McDonald) Campbell. His father died in 1858, aged forty-eight years; his mother's home is in Edinburg, Scotland. His first marriage was with Jane Cameron, who died in August, 1870. Their children were: Alexander, William, George P., Thomas D., Jane M., Annie E. George died in 1864, aged four years. In New York, August 28, 1873, Mr. Campbell married Rosalie Higginbotham,
of Virginia. They have two sons, Edward and Robert W. H., and have buried one son, Douglas, died in 1879, aged three years.
Mr. Campbell came from Scotland to the United States in March, 1855, and at Petersburg, Virginia, engaged in a hardware business, which he carried on until the war. From the close of the war until 1882 he was in the tobacco business. In 1882 he entered on his present business, manufacturer of sumac and bark. He is probably the largest dealer in the United States in this business, making heavy shipments to Europe every year, and being a thorough business man, understanding how to handle his immense
trade. He has much the largest mill in Virginia at Burkeville, where he resides, and also has mills at Richmond and Alexandria, Virginia. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Epes, James Fletcher
EPES, James Fletcher, representative, was born in Nottoway county, Va., May 23, 1842 ; son of T. Freeman and Jacqueline S. (Hardaway) Epes; grandson of John and Fanny (Campbell) Epes; and a descendant of James Fletcher and of John Logan Hardaway. He prepared for college in private schools at Charlotte and Albemarle, Va., and entered the University of Virginia, leaving in 1861 to join the Confederate army. He served in the 3d Virginia cavalry throughout the war, had three horses shot under him
and was seriously wounded at the battle of Reams's Station. He was graduated from the law department of Washington and Lee university in 1867, practiced law and served as commonwealth's attorney for Nottoway county, 1870-84. In 1883 he devoted himself to agricultural pursuits. He was a Democratic representative in the 52d and 53d congresses, serving 1891-95, and acting prominently on the committees on immigration and coinage. At the close of his second term he retired to the plantation, "The Old Place,"
in Nottoway county, Va., where the fathers of three U.S. representatives had resided. He was married to Rebecca M. Poague of Rockbridge county, Va. (Source: Twentieth Century Biographical Dictionary of Notable Americans The Biographical Society, 1904. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Epes, Sydney Parham
EPES, Sydney Parham, representative, was born at "Sunnyside" in Nottoway county, Va., Aug. 20, 1865 ; son of Richard and Agnes Atkinson (Batte) Epes ; grandson of Peter and Martha (Oliver) Epes, and of Peter (Poythress) and Elizabeth Wilkinson (Poindexter) Batte; great- grandson of Richard and Martha G. (Williams) Epes, and of John and Mary (Poythress) Batte; great-great grandson of Peter and Mary (Poythress) Epes and of William and Elizabeth (Horton) Batte ; great-great-great grandson
of John and Martha (Mallory) Batte ; and a direct descendant from Francis Epes, who came from Wales to Virginia in 1628, and from Henry Batte, who came from Oakwell, Yorkshire, England, to Virginia, prior to 1666. He removed with his parents to Kentucky in 1879, returned to Virginia in 1884, and edited a Democratic paper at Blackstone. He was married Jan. 19, 1887, to Lucy Anderson, daughter of Capt. A. Baxter Jones, U.S.A., of Nottoway county, Va. He was a member of the house of delegation in the Virginia legislature,
1891-92; register of the land-office, 1895-97, and a Democratic representative in the 55th and 56th congresses, 1897-1901. He was unseated March 23, 1898, but was renominated by his constituents and re-elected as representative from the 4th Virginia district to the 50th congress by a majority of 2500). (Source: Twentieth Century Biographical Dictionary of Notable Americans The Biographical Society, 1904. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Fitzgerald, Col. John Paterson
The subject of this sketch was born at Nottoway, Virginia, on May 15, 1837, the son of George and Catherine (Campbell) Fitzgerald. His father died in 1863, and his mother died in 1839. Both were born in Nottoway county, and were of families honorably identified with its annals. Francis Fitzgerald, father of George, and for fifty years clerk of Nottoway county, was the son of Captain William Fitzgerald, who served with that rank in the Revolutionary war, and took part in the
battle of Guilford. Catherine, mother of Colonel Fitzgerald, was the daughter of Dr. A. A. Campbell, who was a surgeon in the war of 1812, and who represented Nottoway county many years in the legislature and senate of Virginia. The wife of Colonel Fitzgerald, whom he married in Prince Edward county, December 23, 1863, Rev. R. L. Dabney, D. D., uniting them, is also of eminent Virginian families. She was born in Prince Edward county, Florida Frances, daughter of William Cabell Flourney. Her father, born in 1812,
died in 1861, was the grandson of William Cabell of Nelson county. Her mother is Martha M. Venable, born in 1816, living now at Farmville.
Colonel Fitzgerald was educated at Hampden-Sidney college, and was graduated there in June, 1857; studied law at the University of Virginia, 1857-8, and was licensed to practice law on July 30,1858. He located in Prince Edward county in October, 1858, and was in practice there when war was inaugurated. He entered service as first lieutenant of Company I, 23d Virginia Infantry; was promoted captain July 25,1861 ; major, June 10,1863 ; lieutenant-colonel, same regiment, November
27, 1863. His service was from May, 1861, to the surrender, and under Gens. Garnett and H. R. Jackson in Northwest Virginia, "Stonewall" Jackson in the Valley. He was wounded at Sharpsburg, and captured at Spottsylvania C. H. Taken a prisoner to Fort Delaware, he was one of the fifty field officers sent thence to Charleston, South Carolina, in 1864, to be put under fire of the Confederate guns; was exchanged at Charleston.
After the war, Colonel Fitzgerald resumed his practice in Prince Edward county. Since October, 1885, he has been treasurer of the Union Theological Seminary at Farmville and of Hampden-Sidney college. He takes great interest in secret societies; is a Mason, Knight of Honor, and Royal Arcanum. In 1883-4 was representative of Virginia Grand Lodge K. of H. to Supreme Lodge; and since then has been a member of the committee of Appeals and Grievances of the Supreme Lodge, and chairman
of committee for the last three years. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Gaines, Hon. William Embre
The subject of this sketch is a Virginian, born in Charlotte county on August 30, 1844. He is the second son of C. J. Gaines, Esq., who was born, lived and died in Charlotte county. But few men lived a more useful and honored life than did the senior Mr. Gaines, for thirty-three consecutive years he held the position of magistrate; died on the 16th day of March, 1885, in the sixty-ninth year of his age. At Smithfield, Isle of Wight county, Virginia, on October 10, 1866, the subject of this sketch
married Miss Loulie J. Langhorne, the daughter of the Rev. Maurice J. Langhorne. This most estimable lady died at her husband's residence at Burkeville, Virginia, on October 2, 1885, in the forty-first year of her age, leaving four children : Loulie L., Bessie D., Willie E. and Melissa V.
In his boyhood Mr. Gaines attended the schools of his native county: in 1861 commenced an academic course in the county of Halifax, Virginia. Hostilities commencing between the States at this period, he enlisted in April, 1861, a member of the Charlotte Rifles, 18th Virginia Regiment, afterwards a part of the famous Pickett's Division of the Confederate States Army. He was engaged in nearly all of the battles fought by the Army of Northern Virginia, commencing with the first
battle of Manassas; receiving promotion to adjutant of Manly 's Battalion of field Artillery; surrendering with the C. S. Army in May, 1865.
Immediately after the close of war Mr. Gaines engaged in mercantile pursuits and has been successful in the business of dealer in leaf tobacco in which business he is now engaged.
Mr. Gaines owns a beautiful home in the town of Burkeville, Nottoway county, Virginia. He has served his people four years as mayor, and is now president of the only bank in his town ; was elected a member of the Virginia Senate in 1883; in 1885 was the nominee of his party for president of that body; was elected in 1886 by a majority of 8475 to a seat in the 50th Congress of the United States, in which body he now represents the 4th district of Virginia. (Source: Virginia
and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Hurt, Samuel J.
Samuel J. Hurt, born in Nottoway County, Virginia, in 1820, is a son of Merewether Hurt, who was born in Lunenburg County, was a resident of Virginia through life, and is now deceased. His mother, whose maiden name was Amy Ann Morgan has been some years dead. InBrunswick County, Virginia, in 1865, he married Julia E. Stith, and their children are two sons, Pelham and Samuel J., Jr.; Mrs. Hurt was born in Brunswick County, in 1868 the daughter of Needham Washington Stith, now deceased. The subject
of this sketch went to school in early days in his native county, then was two years in the dry goods business with L. L. Parsons, of Petersburg, when about sixteen years old. Subsequently he returned to school, in Dinwiddie County, attended Jefferson Academy, and prepared himself for the practice of medicine. Abandoning that idea, he returned to Petersburg and entered into the grocery and commission business, in which he continued until the civil war.
He entered the Confederate service in 1861, with the Petersburg Cavalry, volunteers to the State service, and was made company quartermaster, the company going to Norfolk. Soon after he was detached, and made post quartermaster at Suffolk, where he remained until the evacuation; was then transferred to the commissary department and served in same till the close of the war. He then returned to Petersburg having, as may be recorded of many whose sketches appear in these pages, sacrificed everything
but life and honor to the cause, and began life again, building up a business from the foundation, resuming the same line he was engaged in before the war - groceries and commission. [Source: Virginia and Virginians: History of Volume 2; by Robert Alonzo Brock, Virgil Anson Lewis; publ. 1888; Pages 634 to 659; transcribed by Andrea Stawski Pack 2011~]
Jackson, Herman
Born at Nottoway C. H., on August 28,1847, is the son of B. B. Jackson, born in Amelia county, Virginia, died in August, 1876, aged sixty-seven years, and Louisa (Dyson) Jackson, born in Nottoway county, died in 1867. The Jackson family of which he is the representative was founded in America by three brothers who came from England to the Virginia colony at an early day. Lyndhurst Jackson, elder brother of Herman, was a soldier of the 3d Va. Cav. under Fitz Hugh Lee in the late war, serving
from the beginning until captured the day before the surrender. He was taken a prisoner to Point Lookout, and died there, from the effects of measles. Herman Jackson has always lived in the county of his birth, receiving the usual education of the schools of the county, and also attending the Nottoway Academy. His home was with his father until the death of the latter. He married, at Nottoway C. H., September 1, 1880. Lizzie Massenburg Dillard, of Sussex County, Virginia. They have one son, Herman Massenburg,
and one daughter, Lizzie Dillard. Mrs. Jackson's father was R. F. Dillard, born in Sussex county, Virginia, died in 1876. Her mother, whose maiden name was Martha Virginia Massenburg, is now living in Nottoway county. Since June 2, 1879, Herman Jackson has been filling the office of clerk of courts of Nottoway county. Residence: Nottoway C. H.  [Virginia and Virginians: Eminent Virginians ... History of Virginia From Settlement of Jamestown to Close of the Civil War, Volume 2, 1888 - Transcribed by FOFG]
Jones, Freeman W.
Was born in Brunswick County, Virginia, on August 7, 1846. He is a son of Francis Fitzgerald Jones, who was born in Nottoway County, Virginia, and who died in Brunswick County, in August, 1863. His mother died in that county, also, in 1856. She was Sally Green Thweatt, born in Dinwiddie County. At Lawrenceville, Brunswick County, October 23, 1872, Revs. J. H. Morrison and O. A. Glazebrook officiating clergymen, Freeman W. Jones married Harriett Randolph Morrison, who was born in Lawrenceville.
Their children are seven: Lucia Hackley. Carrie Morrison, Freeman W., Jr., Meade Bernard, Harriett R., Fanny Stewart, Sally Thweatt. Mrs. Jones is the daughter of Dr. E. A. Morrison, and his wife Lucia Hackley, formerly of Lawrenceville, both now deceased.
Mr. Jones attended the common schools of his native county for six years only. He entered the Confederate States Army at the age of seventeen years, in April, 1864, Company E, 56th Virginia Infantry, a regiment serving in Hunton's brigade, Pickett's division. He was wounded near Petersburg, August 24, 1864; was captured March 31, 1865 and held at Point Lookout until June 14, 1865. He farmed for some three years after the war. At the age of twenty-three years he was elected sheriff of Brunswick
County and in that capacity he served nine years, by subsequent re-elections. Then he resigned this office, to accept a position tendered as inspector of tobacco, Center Warehouse, Petersburg, where he has remained ever since. He is the present city sergeant of Petersburg, elected in May, 1888.  [Source: Virginia and Virginians: History of Volume 2; by Robert Alonzo Brock, Virgil Anson Lewis; publ. 1888; Pages 634 to 659; tr. by Andrea Stawski Pack]
Jones, James
Jones, James, born in Amelia (now Nottoway) county, Virginia, December 11, 1772; attended Hampden-Sidney College, Virginia, the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and was graduated in medicine from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1796: returned to Amelia county, and practiced medicine and engaged in planting; several times a member of the state house of delegates; privy councilor of Virginia four consecutive terms ; a presidential elector ; defeated candidate for
the fifteenth congress, to fill a vacancy; elected as a Republican to the sixteenth and seventeenth congresses (March 4, i819 - March 3, 1823) ; died at his estate "Mountain Hall." Nottoway county, Virginia, April 25, 1848. (Source: Encyclopedia of Virginia Biography edited by Lyon Gardiner Tyler, LL. D., 1915. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Mann, Judge William Hodges
John Mann, born in Chesterfield county, Virginia, died in August, 1843, and Mary Hunter Bowers, still living, are the parents of the subject of this sketch. He was born at Williamsburg, Virginia, on July 31,1843, and the first five or six years of his school life he attended school in Williamsburg. Afterward he attended school in Brownsburg, Virginia, then studied law without any assistance and obtained license to practice. He entered the Confederate States Army in June, 1861, private in Company
E,12th regiment Virginia Volunteers, the regiment serving in Mahoue's division. In 1863 he was taken prisoner and escaped, and in the same year he was discharged to take charge of the clerk's office in Nottoway, as deputy clerk. In l864 he was elected clerk of the circuit court of Dinwiddie county; in 1865 was Commonwealth attorney in Nottoway county; in 1872 was elected judge of same county, which office he is still ably filling. His father was clerk of James City county for a number of years, with office at
Williamsburg. The first wife of Judge Mann was Sallie Fitzgerald, who died on November 2, 1882. He married secondly at Petersburg, Etta, daughter of Hon. Alexander and Anna (Wilson) Donnan, of Petersburg. They have one son, Stuart Donnan. Residence, Nottoway. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Morton, John M.
Son of Charles A. Morton, was born at Charlotte C.H. Virginia, on March 3, 1846. His father was born in Farmville, Virginia, and lives now near Farmville. His mother, Paulina L. Morton, died on September 7, 1883, aged sixty-three years. At Wilson C.H., North Carolina, February 21, 1868, he married Emma, daughter of Henry T. and Sarah F. (Laube) Pairo. Her father, born in Washington, D. C., living now in Baltimore, Maryland, was a resident of Richmond, Virginia, at the time of her birth. Her
mother died on July 5, 1872, aged sixty years. Mr. and Mrs. Morton have six children living, two deceased. The first-born were twin daughters, Emma P. and Lena C. Lena died on June6, 1872. A son, Thomas E., died on November 3, 1882. .The other children are: Robert L., Josie K., John M., Jr., Sadie A., and Helen P. Mr. Morton attended school in Farmville, Virginia, and the Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, where he graduated. At the age of eighteen years, in March, 1864, he entered the Confederate States
Army, in Martin's Battery, in which he served until the surrender at Appomattox C. H.  He studied law under Prof. Stephen O. Southall, and has been in practice in Prince Edward and Nottoway counties. He was mayor of Hurkeville 1881-3, was elected commonwealth attorney in May, 1883, and again in 1887, and is still serving. Residence, Burkeville. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. byRobyn Greenlund)
Oliver, William C.
WILLIAM C. OLIVER, Judge of the Probate Court of Greene County, [AL] was born December 12, 1816, in Nottoway County, Va. His father, Isaac Oliver, and his mother, Mary A. G. Oliver, were both of English lineage. His maternal grandfather, Col. Parks Bacon, was a native of Lunenburg County, Va. Asa Oliver, a paternal uncle, was a member for many years of the Virginia Legislature; Charles Oliver, another uncle, resided in Botetourt County, Va., and owned many negroes and a large estate there.  Our subject was reared and educated in Virginia. He clerked in a retail store in Petersburg, until he was twenty years old, and then came to Alabama, settling at Erie, then the county seat of Greene. He there clerked and kept books. From 1840 to 1844, he clerked on the steamboat " Victoria," which ran the Warrior River between Mobile and Tuscaloosa. During a portion of this time he was tax collector and assessor for Greene County. In 1844, he was deputy-sheriff. He then engaged as
a drygoods salesman in Mobile for three years, and was elected sheriff of Greene County in 1850, which office he held three years. He was elected probate judge in 1856, and served until 1868, when he was removed from office under the reconstruction acts. In 1880, he was again elected probate judge, and has held that office ever since.
Judge Oliver was first married in 1842, to Miss Elizabeth Phillips, daughter of W. H. Phillips, of Hillsboro, N. C. She died in 1850, leaving three children, of whom two died in childhood, and Martha Epes grew to maturity and married John P. Gilmer. In 1860, our subject was married, to Miss Lizzie S. Whitehead, of Carroll County, Miss., by whom he had two children, Jeannette, who married W. D. Duncan (a merchant of Eutaw), and William W. Oliver, a teacher at Tuscaloosa.  Judge Oliver is a Free & Accepted Mason. [Source: Northern Alabama - Historical and Biographical by Smith & De Land, Birmingham, Ala 1888 - Transcribed by V. McKinney]
Pryor, Luke
Pryor, Luke, lawyer, U. S. senator, representative in congress, was born July 5, 1820, near Huntsville, Madison County, and died August 6, 1900, at Athens; son of Luke and Anne Batte (Lane) Pryor, the former a native of Virginia, who was first married to Martha Scott, sister of Gen. Winfield Scott, and who lived at Petersburg, Va., until after his second marriage in 1808, when he moved to Brunswick and later Nottoway Counties Va., and came to Alabama in 1820, first locating in Madison County,
near Huntsville, where he farmed and taught school for a few years, and later moving to Limestone County, where he died in June, 1851; grandson of John and Anne (Bland) Pryor, the former a native of England, who came to America about 1700, and purchased land in Virginia, and of Benjamin and Sylvia (Perry) Lane, natives of Virginia, who lived in Brunswick County, Va.; great-grandson of Samuel and Prudence (Thornton) Pryor, and of Richard and Ann (Poythress) Bland, who lived at Jordan's Point, Va.; great-great-grandson
of Col. William Thornton of Gloucester County, Va, Mr. Pryor received his early education at Mooresville, Limestone County, and for a short time was a student at Washington college, near Natchez, Miss. He began the study of law in 1841 under Judge Daniel Coleman, and received a license to practice in the local courts the same year. He entered into a partnership with Robert C Brickell, the late chief justice of the supreme court of Alabama, and continued that association until 1843; was law partner of Col. Egbert
Jones for a short time; was appointed with Gen. Leroy Pope Walker as bank attorney at Decatur, 1844; was re-appointed in 1845 with D. C Humphries as attorney for the same bank; resigned that position later in the year, continuing the practice of law in connection with farming at Athens; was elected to the State legislature in 1855, pledged to the work of securing authority to subscribe two hundred thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Tennessee and Alabama central railroad company, at Nashville and Decatur,
and secured the bill raising that tax, enacted over the veto of Gov. Winston; entered into a partnership with George S. Houston in 1866, which lasted until 1874, when Mr. Houston was elected governor; continued his practice alone until in December, 1879, when he was appointed by Gov. Cobb to the U. S. senate to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Houston; served as senator from December 31, 1879, until the legislature met in November, 1880, when he declined to be a candidate to complete the unexpired
term; abandoned the law and gave his attention to farming, remaining in quiet life for two years, until in 1883, without his knowledge, he was nominated for representative in congress from the eighth district by acclamation at the convention assembled in Decatur. He was elected and served 1883-1885, declining a second term.
Married: August 20, 1845, to Isabella Virginia Harris, born January 7, 1826, in Limestone County, who died in June, 1889, daughter of John H. and Frances (Rowzee) Harris, natives of Virginia, who lived in Albemarle County, Va., the former a captain in the War of 1812; granddaughter of Matthew and Elizabeth (Tate) Harris, and of John and Isabella (Miller) Rowzee, of Essex County, Va.; greatgranddaughter of William and Mary (Netherland) Harris; great-great-granddaughter of Matthew and Elizabeth
(Lee) Harris. Children: 1. Aurora, Athens, m. Robert A. McClellan, deceased; 2. William Richard, deceased, m. Ida Harris, Harris; 3. Memory, Athens, m. William Shirley Peebles, deceased; 4. Anne Batte Lane, deceased, m. Maclin Sloss, Birmingham; 5. Frances Snow, Athens; 6. Isabella Benjamin, d. in infancy; 7. Mary, m. Thomas Bass Leslie, West Point, Miss.; 8. Harriett Emily, deceased, m. Robert J. Lowe (q. v.). Last residence: Athens. [History of Alabama and dictionary of Alabama biography, Volume 4 By Thomas
McAdory Owen, Mrs. Marie (Bankhead) Owen, 1921 - Transcribed by FOFG]
Syndor, Thomas L., D.D.S.
Son of Rev. Thos. W. Sydnor, D. D., is a native of Virginia, born in Nottoway county, on April 12, 1849. He was educated at the Richmond College, and then entered the Baltimore Dental College, whence he was graduated with honors in 1874. From 1874 to 1879 he practiced his profession in Salem, Virginia, and since that time has been in practice in Danville, his present place of residence. Fourteen years of practice and an entire devotion to his profession have given him a well reserved reputation
in his business. Dr. Sydnor had two brothers in the Confederate States Army: Edward G., killed at Sharpsburg, Maryland, September 17, 1802; and R. Walton, captain of Nottoway Company last year of the war, at the age of seventeen years. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
Wilson, Charles Everett
The Wilson family were early seated in Nottoway county, Charles Wilson, great grandfather of Charles Everett, having been among the earliest settlers in this section of Virginia. His son John Wilson, born in Nottoway county, was the father of Charles R. Wilson, also born in this county, and now living here aged sixty-eight years, the father of Charles Everett, who was born at Wellville, on March 11, 1853. The wife of Charles H. Wilson was Annie L. Jones, who died in 1858. Charles
Everett Wilson married, at Petoskey, Michigan, on January 24, 1884, Mary Helen Rice, who was born in Lewis county, New York. She is the daughter of B. Blair Rice and Isabella Livingston Rice, formerly of New York, now living at Petoskey, Michigan. Mr. and Mrs. Wilson have one son, Richard Blair, born December 20, 1885.
Mr. Wilson attended school near Wellville for five years, and lived with his father until twenty years of age, when he went into the service of Norfolk & Western Railroad Company, as station agent. In this service he continued for six years, or until 1879. In 1877 he opened a mercantile business at Nottoway, which he successfully conducted until 1887. He was elected treasurer of Nottoway county in 1883, and re-elected in 1887, and is still serving. He is a stock-holder
and director in the Burkeville Savings Bank. In 1883 was postmaster at Nottoway, which position he resigned to accept the county treasuryship. Residence, Nottoway C. H. (Source: Virginia and Eminent Virginians by Dr. R.A. Brock, 1888. - Tr. by Robyn Greenlund)
HOME
© Genealogy Trails