20 October - International Day of the Air Traffic Controller
Future Skies 2025
Subscribe to our Tender Information Service
World ATM Directory & ANSP Report 2025 - Reserve your page
Join our Business Membership Program
Future Skies 2025 Special Bulletin - Space available
Home News Tenders Industry Showcases Jobs Courses Events Webinars Videos Who is Who Publications Organisations Blog
20 October - International Day of the Air Traffic Controller
Monday, October 17, 2011 12:00 AM
On Thursday the 20th Octoberthe International Federation of Air Traffic Controllers Associations (IFATCA) celebrates the International Day of the Air Traffic Controller and 50 years of existence since its beginnings in 1961. IFATCA was founded through an abiding passion for air traffic control and flight safety when passenger transport began to play a prominent role in aviation.
This spirit more than ever before exists in the hearts and minds of all air traffic controllers. The response to the idea of a federation was immediate and universal. From its founding on 20 October 1961 IFATCA has grown to 137member associations representing more than 50,000 air traffic controllers worldwide.
Aviation, as the backbone of society, has become an integral part of many peoples lives but the profession of air traffic control is often still unknown, misunderstood, underestimated or unfairly linked with the consequences of accidents, delays and industrial actions resulting in mostly negative press and a wrong perception in the public. Seldom enough do the air traffic controllers receive the deserved attention for the many flight safely handled, for the thousands of passengers expeditiously guided through busy skies and the challenges we live with in times of increased economic and social pressure.
For decades our profession has developed from pen and paper (still used in many places) to highly automated complex electronic networks. This evolution would not have been possible without the structured, motivated and continuous input of the professionals we are.
When we celebrate 20th of October this year, we reach out to our colleagues, to the individual air traffic controller who strives minute-by-minute to provide the best service to bring you safely and efficiently to your destination - all too often under circumstances which are far from ideal. Working conditions and work environment, training and remuneration, equipment and automation need to reflect the complexity of the profession and assist the air traffic controller in their challenging task.
Despite an increasingly critical media exposure, often fuelled by wrong economical interpretations, air traffic controllers worldwide hold on to the highest aims of our Federation, Safety & Efficiency!
Today we recognise our efforts, salute our accomplishments, and renew our mission of service through an industry that is at the heart of a global community.
To all air traffic controllers, be proud and celebrate your profession today!
One Sky, One Voice, One Future.
Contact
IFATCA Office
From
IFATCA
Website
www.ifatca.org
Date
Monday, October 17, 2011 12:00 AM
Comments
There are no comments yet for this item
Join the discussion
You can only add a comment when you are logged in.        Click here to login
Forgot your password?
Join our community for FREE today!
Create and share your own profile
Join the discussions
Publish your own items
Subscription to our Weekly eNewsletter
your benefits?
Get connected with atc professionals worldwide
Create your free account
Go To Registration
Close
To join as a Company, look at our Business Membership Options
FREE membership benefits
* create and share your own profile
* join the discussions
* publish your own items on atc-network.commanage news, jobs, tenders, companies, events, showcases, educations, associations and literature.
* subscribe to our weekly eNewsletter
Add news yourself
Premium Members
Page tags
all air traffic controllers
profession
air traffic control
Our Premium Members
Main
Home
News
Tenders
Companies
Showcases
Jobs
Courses
Events
Interviews
Publications
Organisations
Blog
ATC Network
About Air Traffic Control
Who is Who
Membership
Testimonials
Contact
Contact ATC Network
Report technical issues
Disclaimer
Follow
LinkedIn
Twitter
Facebook