Home - Bicycles Network Australia
Sign in
BNA Home
Cycling News
Reviews & Tech
Australian Cycling Forum
Sign in
Welcome!Log into your account
your username
your password
Forgot your password?
Privacy and Data Protection
Password recovery
Recover your password
your email
Search
BNA Home
Cycling News
Reviews & Tech
Australian Cycling Forum
Search
Australian Summer Races: A Stepping Stone or a Spectacle?
News & Features
Christopher Jones -  February 7, 2025
Articles and Reviews
NSW introduces new standards for lithium-ion batteries to tackle e-mobility safety
Christopher Jones -
From February 2025 and e-micromobility 'devices' which includes e-bikes, e-scooters, e-skateboards, self-balancing scooters with lithium-ion batteries will be ‘declared electrical articles’ and be governed...
Start List for 2025 Santos Tour Down Under
Christopher Jones -
The Santos Tour Down Under will feature eight current national champions across the men’s and women’s pelotons for the 25th edition of Australia’s biggest race,...
Local Legend John Degenkolb powers Eschborn-Frankfurt race
Christopher Jones -
DEGE has a big local fanbase around Frankfurt, Germany and the surrounding Taunus hills that is home to host prosperous towns. The 35 year...
Review: Unpass ‘eco’ Orage bike cleaning wipes
Christopher Jones -
Baby wipes are not just a convenience for cyclists on-the-go who want to give their bike a shine, more and more riders rely on...
2024 Tour Down Under – Beyond the Race
Christopher Jones -
The festival of cycling, hosted each year in January by Tourism South Australia, is a multifaceted event however the men's and women's Tour Down...
2024 Tour Down Under success for Sam Welsford
Christopher Jones -
The Tour Down Under kicks off the professional cycling season and hosts international and local stars including Filippo Ganna, Julian Julian Alaphilippe, Caleb Ewan...
Popular Cycling Forums
Buying a Bike and Parts
The Bike Shed
Cycling Safety and Advocacy
Cycling Health
Retro, Vintage and Classic Bikes
Marketplace: Bike and Gear Sales
Touring Australia
Since 1999, Bicycles Network Australia has connected the cycling community online with the Australian Cycling Forums and regular Bike reviews and cycling news.
InstagramYoutube
© Bicycles Network Australia 1999 - 2024 | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
Advertise
Reviews
About Bicycles network Australia