Troubled Times: New Geography
New Geography
Excerpts from ZetaTalk on New Geography
After the Pole Shift the Earth begins rotating again, with its new poles in the same relative position to
the Solar System as today. In other words, whatever part of the Earth is North, magnetically, after the
shift, will become the new North Pole. The Pole Shift, with consequent realignment of the poles, will
place the new equator over formerly frozen lands. Greenland, Canada, Alaska, Siberia, and Europe
will be affected by the new equator. This will not mean that these areas will be lush, right away. The
temperate zones, not all that lush to begin with, will find themselves after the cataclysms in a warm
state, but with little vegetation. Past cataclysms have regularly rearranged the Earth's geography and
climate zones, as the Earth attests. The continents, once one large land mass, were torn apart,
temperate or tropical areas suddenly freezing up and covering over with ice and snow that never melts,
and frozen wastelands gradually melting and warming to sustain life once again. Mountains in
mountain building areas were pushed higher and subducting plates were suddenly slid under the
overplate.
Excerpts from Earth in Upheaval, The Ivory Islands
by Velikovsky, page 4-6
Fossil tusks of the mammoth - an extinct elephant - were found in northern Siberia and brought
southward to markets at a very early time. Northern Siberia provided more than half the world's
supply of ivory, many piano keys and many billiard balls being made from the fossil tusks of
mammoths.
In 1797 the body of a mammoth, with flesh, skin, and hair, was found in northeastern Siberia. The flesh
had the appearance of freshly frozen beef; it was edible, and wolves and sled dogs fed on it without
harm. The ground must have been frozen ever since the day of their entombment; had it not been frozen,
the bodies of the mammoths would have putrefied in a single summer, but they remained unspoiled for
some thousands of years. In some mammoths, when discovered, even the eyeballs were still preserved.
(All) this shows that the cold became suddenly extreme .. and knew no relenting afterward. In the
stomachs and between the teeth of the mammoths were found plants and grasses that do not grow now
in northern Siberia .. (but are) .. now found in southern Siberia. Microscopic examination of the skin
showed red blood corpuscles, which was proof not only of a sudden death, but that the death was due
to suffocation either by gases or water.
Excerpts from ZetaTalk on Sinking Atlantic
As we have stated, the Atlantic will widen and the Pacific will shorten. Where the Pacific effect will
cause sudden and violent subduction of several plates, which are already subducting, in the Atlantic
the effect will be the opposite. A gulf will appear, with plates torn apart and the softer magma under
the plates exposed to the cold Atlantic water. Where this will harden the magma, and establish new
plate surface, there will be less support for the abridging plates, those that attach however remotely to
the shorelines of the Americas, Europe, and Africa. These non-supported plates will sink, somewhat,
bringing their formerly above-water land masses down under the water in many places. As an instance,
Europe and in particular the western islands of Britain and Ireland will find itself more affected than
some other parts of the globe.
Excerpts from Earth in Upheaval, Whales in the Mountains
by Velikovsky, pp 46-49
Bones of whale have been found 440 feet above sea level, north of Lake Ontario; a skeleton of another
whale was discovered in Vermont, more than 500 feet above sea level; and still another in the
Montreal-Quebec area, about 600 feet above sea level. Although the Humphrey whale and beluga
occasionally enter the mouth of the St. Lawrence, they do not climb hills.
To account for the presence of whales in the hills of Vermont and Montreal, at elevations of 500 and
600 feet, requires the lowering of the land to that extent. The accepted theory is that the land in the
region of Montreal and Vermont was depressed more than 600 feet by the weight of ice and kept in this
position for a while after the ice melted. Another solution would be for an ocean tide, carrying the
whales, to have trespassed upon the land.
But along the coast of Nova Scotia and New England stumps of trees stand in water, telling of once
forested country that (has since become) submerged. And opposite the mouths of the St. Lawrence and
the Hudson rivers are deep (land) canyons stretching for hundreds of miles into the ocean. These
indicate that the land (has become) sea, being depressed in post-glacial times. Then did both processes
go on simultaneously, in neighboring areas, here up, there down?
Excerpts from ZetaTalk on Endangered Species
Regarding saving DNA from animal species, so that these species will continue after the cataclysms.
This is not a human endeavor we would recommend. In the first place, humans are not adept at
regenerating a creature from DNA, nor would you be able to store this DNA effectively, given the
nature of the cataclysms. The DNA would be spoiled due to neglect, as humans would have so many
greater concerns during the Aftertime. In the second place, animals in one form or another have
survived repeated cataclysms. Natural evolution takes place, in any case, and the cataclysms only trip
the balance this way or that. Without the cataclysms your Earth's animal species would be different, a
different mix, and with some species now long extinct still present. But because these extinct species
had survived, others would not have thrived, due to competition. Therefore, beyond protecting nature
preserves, do not concern yourself over animal survival. Nature looks after her own.
Excerpts from Earth in Upheaval, Tidal Wave
by Velikovsky, pp 51- 54
Fissures in the rocks .. all over western Europe, are choked with bones of animals, some of extinct
races, others, though of the same age, of races still surviving. The bones .. are mostly broken and
splintered into innumerable sharp fragments and are evidently not those of animals devoured by beasts
of prey. The Rock of Gibraltar is intersected by numerous crevices filled with bones. The bones are
broken and splintered. The remains of panther, lynx, caffir-cat, hyena, wolf, bear, rhinoceros, horse,
wild boar, red deer, fallow deer, ibex, ox, hare, rabbit, have been found in these ossiferous fissures.
On Corsica, Sardinia, and Sicily the broken bones of animals choke the fissures in the rocks.
The state of preservation of the bones indicates that the animals, all of them, perished in the same
period of time. No hardened animal feces were found, indicating that the dead beasts had not lived in
these hollows or fissures. No teeth marks of hyena or of any other animal are found in the osseous
mass. The bones are those of animals of all ages down to the fetus, nor do they show traces of
weathering or exposure.
The extremely fresh condition of the bones, proved by the retention of so large a proportion of animal
matter, shows that the event was, geologically, comparatively recent. The fact that animals of all ages
were involved in the catastrophe shows it to have been sudden.
Excertps from Worlds in Collision, East and West
by Velikovsky, pp 105-114
Our planet rotates from west to east. Has it always done so? There is testimony from all parts of the
world that the side which is now turned toward the evening once faced the morning. The Egyptians
pride themselves on being the most ancient people in the world. In their authentic annals .. one may
read that .. the course of the stars has changed direction .. and that the sun has set in that part of the sky
where it rises today. In the Papyrus Ipuwer it is similarly stated that "the land turns round as does a
potter's wheel" and "the Earth turns over".
Plato wrote in his dialogue: "At certain periods the universe has its present circular motion, and at
other periods it revolves in the reverse direction." Plato wrote in Politicus: "There is at that time great
destruction of animals in general, and only a small part of the human race survives". The Chinese say
that it is only since a new order of things has come about that the stars move from east to west. The
signs of the Chinese zodiac have the strange peculiarity of proceeding in a retrograde direction, that is,
against the course of the sun. The Eskimos of Greenland told missionaries that in an ancient time the
earth turned over.
Excertps from Worlds in Collision, Reversed Polarity of the Earth
by Velikovsky, pp 105-114
It is possible to detect in the geological records of the earth the orientation of the terrestrial magnetic
field in past ages. When lava cools and freezes following a volcanic outburst, it takes up a permanent
magnetization dependent upon the orientation of the Earth's magnetic field at the time. The reversed
polarity of lava indicates that in recent geological times the magnetic poles of the globe were
reversed.