Jon Niese Since A Championship | The LoHud Mets Blog – The Mets Police
Skip to content
The Mets Police
What Mets fans talk about when not talking about the actual games.
Posted on October 25, 2011 by Shannon Shark @metspoliceJon Niese Since A Championship | The LoHud Mets Blog
Jon Niese turns 25 this Thursday.  Put another way: someone was born, grew up, went through the minor leagues and established him as a major league starting pitcher since the last time the Mets won a World Series.
via Jon Niese Since A Championship | The LoHud Mets Blog.
Categoriesmets
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious   What it was like to cover Game 6? – Mets Blog – ESPN New YorkNext PostNext Jason Gay: Where Were You on Buckner Day? – WSJ.com
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
The Group Text
Mets “Chase” Cap
T7L Tear this building down t-shirt
Are the new Mets road uniforms actually atrocious?
Where does David Stearns plan to get the innings from?
All content posted on Mets Police may include parody, satire, and humorous interpretations of real events and persons for entertainment purposes. Any similarity to actual persons, living or dead, or actual events should be viewed through this lens of parody and satire. Posts may exaggerate or reimagine these elements for comedic effect. Readers should not interpret parody content as factual reporting.
Privacy Policy
Proudly powered by WordPress
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings.
Accept
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by  GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.
Enable All
Save Settings