Political Action | Canadian Union of Public Employees
Skip to main content
Utility menu
Home
About
Newsroom
Contact
Français
Main menu
Show the Main Menu
Campaigns
Issues & Research
Sectors
Member Resources
Union Education
Your Local
Join CUPE
Search
Highlighted content related to the Campaigns main menu item.
Health care issues and research
Collective bargaining issues & research
Health & safety issues and research
All issues
Highlighted content related to the Issues &amp; Research main menu item.Highlighted content related to the Sectors main menu item.
Committees and working groups
Publications
Order materials from CUPE
All resources
Highlighted content related to the Member Resources main menu item.
Workshop Calendar
Workshop Catalog
Literacy
All materials
Highlighted content related to the Union Education main menu item.Text search terms
Enter your keywords
Highlighted content related to the Search main menu item.
Political Action
Share this page in your online social circlesShare thisShare this page on TwitterShare this page on FacebookPrint this page
Workers’ voice in politics, government and community.
CUPE members are an important part of our communities. As citizens with a stake in public services, they want and deserve a say in the decisions that affect their neighbours, friends and family.
By being active in municipal, provincial and federal politics, CUPE can achieve positive change for our members and all Canadians.
We do this work every day, not just during elections. We defend the interests of workers at the bargaining table and in society to ensure our voices are heard. We talk and work with political leaders, coalitions and community partners, and all Canadians to make our communities better places to live.
We work closely with the New Democratic Party to make sure governments hear the voice of Canadian workers. As a founding partner in the NDP, we are a vital part of our democracy.
CUPE votes
Read more
Canada's NDP: Working together
Read more
Federal Budget 2022: Summary and analysis
Apr 8, 2022 Economy
CUPE commends federal agreement to deliver for Canadians
Mar 22, 2022 Political Action
Related news
Scott Moe budget continues to ignore Saskatchewan health care workers
Mar 21, 2025 Health Care, Political Action
Manitoba budget’s focus on strengthening public services,  bold contrast to Trump’s cuts
Mar 21, 2025 Political Action
CUPE calls on Carney to support public solutions and resist Trump
Mar 14, 2025 Economy, Political Action
View all
Get involved
Read more
National Political Action Committee
Read more
Related content
CUPE Votes:  Help us build a Canada that puts workers first
It's in their best interest to make you think you don't have options.
Canada's next leader needs to be behind everyday Canadians 100%.
View all
Our social site pages
Twitter Facebook
Subscribe to our newsletters
Get up to date news and information from CUPE: Subscribe
CUPE
National President
National Secretary-Treasurer
CUPE constitution
Jobs at CUPE
Shop Universal Promotions
Contact us
Français
Upcoming Events
Our Time Together: A national space for Indigenous, Black, and racialized CUPE members and allies
More Events
Current News and Updates
Canada's flight attendants push parties to pledge end of unpaid work if elected
Sask Party cuts put libraries at risk
Province-wide demonstrations for public electricity services in Quebec
Strike mandate for Autobus Fleur de Lys  bus drivers in Shawinigan
More Updates
Popular Topics
Pensions
Privatization
Collective Bargaining
Contact information
CUPE | 1375 St. Laurent Blvd. Ottawa, Ontario K1G 0Z7 Tel: (613) 237-1590 Fax: (613) 237-5508  Toll free: (844) 237-1590
Legal menu
Privacy Policy
Report a problem