2010 UNLV Rebels Gambling Odds – Cappers Picks Blog – Free Sports Predictions
Skip to the content
Search
Cappers Picks Blog - Free Sports PredictionsSports Picks - Betting Predictions + Sports Handicappers Tips Online
Menu
Sports Picks
Free Sports Picks
Premium Predictions
Handicappers Best Bets
Sportsbooks Reviews
Internet Sportsbooks
USA Betting Sites
Canada Betting Sites
Contact Us
About Us
Responsible Gambling
Affiliate Disclosure
Site Map
CP Linktr.ee
Blog Archives
Search
Search for:
Close search
Close Menu
Sports Picks
Free Sports Picks
Premium Predictions
Handicappers Best Bets
Sportsbooks Reviews
Internet Sportsbooks
USA Betting Sites
Canada Betting Sites
Contact Us
About Us
Responsible Gambling
Affiliate Disclosure
Site Map
CP Linktr.ee
Blog Archives
Categories
NCAA Football
2010 UNLV Rebels Gambling Odds
College football preview guide for the 2010 UNLV Rebels CFB betting season. Kyle Hunter weighs in with his ncaa football predictions, and BCS championship handicapping analysis…
Post author
By Kyle Hunter
Post date
August 3, 2010
UNLV Rebels 2010 Season Preview/Prediction
Kyle Hunter
The College Football season may be 3-4 weeks away but our man Kyle Hunter has been deep in study and will provide his take and 2010 College Football Predictions on as many NCAA teams as he can before the 2010/11 season kicks off.
We start from the top and move our way down so keep checking in for more college football previews for the 2010-2011 NCAA Football Season!
2010 NCAA Football Predictions – Teams | Analysis | Previews Online
Mountain West Football Previews: UNLV
Head Coach: Bobby Hauck
2009 Record: 5-7
UNLV Gambling Odds from Sportsbook.com to win BCS: +220000
The UNLV Rebels are famous for playing some very good basketball, but this football program just hasn’t been able to find any success on the field of late. In the last 15 years the Rebels have just one bowl appearance. Bobby Hauck is the new coach, and he was extremely successful in Montana as the Grizzlies head coach.
Hauck is looking to bring a new attitude to the team and get this Rebels football team on the map.
CLICK HERE TO VIEW KYLE HUNTER’S DAILY EXPERT SPORTS PLAYS —–>
The offense looks like it should be solid this season, but the defense is a real question mark. In 2009 the UNLV defense was last in the conference in almost every defensive category. Rebels fans are hoping that Hauck and his assistants will bring along their defensive prowess from Montana and change this team quickly. Hauck is also changing the entire scheme on offense and switching to a pro style offense from a spread offense.
Clearly, some major changes are going to occur this season at UNLV.
Team Strengths:
The offensive line is a strong spot for the Rebels. Four starters return and three of them are seniors. The line will be asked to do more run blocking this year, which will certainly be an adjustment, but they should do well.
The Rebels have quite a bit of talent at the skill positions on the offensive side of the football. Both C.J. Cox and Channing Trotter are quality runners in the backfield. The receiving corps is solid with Phillip Payne and Michael Johnson.
The starting quarterback is still undecided, but both Omar Clayton and Mike Claussen are quality players.
Team Weaknesses:
The rushing defense is absolutely atrocious. Last year the Rebels gave up 221 yards per game on the ground. This is something that must change if UNLV is going to start winning games on a consistent basis.
The front seven have done a terrible job getting to the quarterback, which puts a ton of pressure on the secondary. The defense had a measly 15 sacks last year and they were not a bit disruptive against their best opponents. The worst news is 6.5 of those sacks came from a player who is no longer with the team. This is a huge area of concern.
The Rebels have to do a better job taking care of the football on offense. Last year they threw a lot of interceptions at costly times and they weren’t very good at taking the ball from their opponent.
2010-2011 UNLV Runnin’ Rebels Football Predictions: 6-7
I think that Hauck will likely have success turning this program around in the long run. This year’s schedule makes it pretty unlikely that 2010 will be the year they get to a bowl game. Injuries have been a huge problem at UNLV in the last couple of years, so if they stay healthy I think we will see some improvement from this team.
The front seven of this defense is too much of a weakness to ignore, which is why they’ll be unable to beat the best teams in their conference.
LOOKING FOR THE BEST SPORTSBOOK ON THE PLANET? CLICK HERE NOW TO CHECK OUT SPORTSBOOK.COM TODAY!!!! OPEN AN ACCOUNT & grab your FREE $$ – 50% Sign Up Bonus!!
Kyle Hunter sports picks – A degree in finance and a great ability to follow important trends and statistics set him apart from the rest. Check out his plays today.
Tags
2010, 2010-2011, BCS odds, college football betting, college football handicapping analysis, college football news, college football prediction, college football preview, expert picks, ncaa football gambling, ncaaf handicappers, Odds To Win Mountain West, rebels, rebels betting predictions, UNLV, UNLV BCS Odds, UNLV Football Preview, UNLV odds to win BCS, UNLV Rebels, UNLV Rebels Odds, UNLV Rebels picks
By Kyle Hunter
Kyle Hunter sports picks – A degree in finance and a great ability to follow important trends and statistics set him apart from the rest. Totals are Kyle's specialty, so look for a lot of totals picks from NBA, NCAAF, & the NFL. Check out his plays today.
View Archive →
←
2010 San Diego St. Aztecs Gambling Odds
→
2010 Colorado St. Rams Gambling Odds
©
2025							Cappers Picks Blog – Free Sports Predictions
Powered by WordPress
To the top ↑
Up ↑