Pivotal Payments's Profile Page
Search TOYDIRECTORY Using GOOGLE:
Custom Search
.
Pivotal Payments
OUR
TOYS SAVE YOU MONEY!
Pivotal Payments is a major provider of Point-of-Sale and Internet
merchant account solutions — offering credit card processing,
terminal management solutions and gateway services to eCommerce
and mail order/telephone order merchants.
Pivotal Payments allows you to start accepting all major credit cards (Visa,
Master Card, Amex, Discover, Diners Club, JCB) and debit / check cards through
the use of a terminal, software or eCommerce gateway – at highly
competitive rates. Transactions are authorized immediately and funds
deposited in the merchant’s bank account.
Varied Terminal Interfaces
Pivotal Payments consistently sets itself apart by supporting almost any type
of POS environment and industry-specific terminal features. We offer a large
selection of reliable, durable and user-friendly card processing and check verification
terminals and peripherals. Choose from our many flexible platform options including
POS interface, stand-alone terminals and PC products for multi-terminal configurations
as well as wireless solutions. Our hardware platforms support
industry leaders such as Verifone®, Hypercom® and Lipman-Nurit®.
We also reprogram existing terminals quickly and easily.
Flexible Gateway Options
The Pivotal Merchant Account integrates to all major gateways. Our relationship
manager can assist any merchant who requires a gateway in determining which
solution is best suited for their business model, and facilitates set-up with
the provider. Our merchant account also integrates into all major CRM and business
systems.
Solution Features:
Exceptional Merchant Support Team
Highly Competitive rates
Customized Retail and eCommerce Solutions
Secure, Reliable Technology
Merchant-Focused
Dedicated Relationship Manager
About Us:
At Pivotal Payments, we understand the constantly evolving payment processing
industry and are committed to providing merchants with the services that will
ensure their business growth and success.
Pivotal Payments provides a full suite of merchant services including; credit
& debit card processing, electronic check conversion, gift & loyalty
card programs and terminal management solutions. Pivotal Payments maintains
a strong reputation for superior customer service and our clients include small
to mid-sized retailers, chain stores, restaurants and franchise operations.
Pivotal Payments is also a major provider of Internet merchant account solutions
– offering credit card processing and gateway services to eCommerce and
mail order / telephone order merchants.
Pivotal
Payments
6800 Jericho Turnpike, Suite 120
W. Syosset, NY 11791
Tel: 866 693-2943
Fax: 866 693-2944
Toys@pivotalpayments.com
<
09/01/2005
©1996-2005 ToyDirectory.com, Inc.(R) All rights reserved. All logos, brands, and product names listed are trademarks and property of their respective holders.
Manufacture, Manufacturer, Die Cast, Dolls, Wholesale, Wholesaler, Toys, Toy Suppliers, Toy Wholesalers, Toy Manufacturers, Toy Sales, Toy Directory, wholesale toy source, Directory, Wholesale Directory, Business to Business, Hobby Goods, Hobby Directory