Homepage - Allen County Sheriff
Skip to Main Content
Office:(260) 449-7535Non-emergency:(260) 449-3000Emergency:911
Search Toggle
Site Search
Search
Menu
Menu
Close
DepartmentMenu Toggle
Join Our Team
DivisionsMenu Toggle
Bureau of Identification
Civil/Court
Detective Bureau
Office of Professional Standards
Patrol
Public Information Officer
Sex Offenders
Vice & Narcotics
Warrants
JailMenu Toggle
Inmate Search
Jail Rules
Pay to Inmate’s Account
Visitation
NewsMenu Toggle
News & Events
Activity Logs
Media Relations
ResourcesMenu Toggle
Animal Control Field Service Officers
Classes
Criminal Records Check
Fingerprints
Handgun License
Training/Education
Service Information for Civil Papers
Sheriff Sale
Tax Warrant Information
External Links
Smart911 Portal
Inmate SearchContact Us
Pause
Allen County
Sheriff's Department
Inmate SearchContact Us
Our Mission
The mission of the Allen County Sheriff’s Department is to enhance the quality of life for the citizens of Allen County by professionally working in partnership to provide safety, security and service to the community while upholding the constitutional responsibilities of the Office of Sheriff.
Sheriff Troy Hershberger
As a lifelong resident and over 34 years with the department, Sheriff Hershberger has made it his life’s mission to serve and protect the citizens of Allen County. Sheriff Hershberger was elected Sheriff of Allen County in November 2022 and was sworn into office on December 29, 2022.
Allen County Sheriff’s Department November 1989 – Present
Sheriff Hershberger began his long-running career at the Allen County Confinement Facility and has gone on to oversee nearly every division of the department. During his tenure, he’s also served as a polygraphist for 18 Years, a SWAT Team member for 12 Years, Bomb Squad Technician for 11 Years, and a K-9 Handler for 6 Years.
Boards and Certifications Past and Present:
Board of Directors of the Alcohol Abuse Deterrent Program
Advisory board for Great Kids Make Great Communities
Dr. Bill Lewis Center for Children
YMCA Youth Services Bureau
Greater Fort Wayne Crime Stoppers
YWCA of Northeast Indiana
Fort Wayne Women’s Bureau
Mayor’s Commission on Domestic Violence, Rape, and Sexual Harassment
Allen County’s Child Death Review Team
Child Protection Team of Allen County
Allen County School Safety Commission
Board Member of the Combined Communications Partnership (Emergency Dispatch Center)
Homeland Security Advisory Council Member
Popular Pages
Sheriff Sales
Warrants
Press Releases
Recruitment
Send money to inmates
Inmate Search
News & Events
All Posts
2025 SHERIFF SALES
Mar 24 2025
List of 2025 Allen County Sheriff Mortgage Foreclosure Sales
Death Investigation
Mar 05 2025
On 03/05/2025, at approximately 10:48 A.M., officers with the Allen County Sheriff's Department responded to the 4900 block of Halsley Ct., regarding a naked black male pointing a handgun at individuals and walking around the area.  Officers arrived and were able to locate the suspect, who was armed with a handgun.
Fatal crash on US 27 S and Flatrock Rd.
Mar 04 2025
On 03/04/2025, at approximately 4:27 pm, officers with the Allen County Sheriff’s Department responded to the area of US 27 S and Flatrock Rd.  Upon arrival, officers and medics located a maroon semi pulling a loaded flatbed trailer and silver passenger car at the intersection of US 27 S and Flatrock Rd., that appeared to be involved in the crash.
All Posts
Featured Warrants
Cain Hillis
Elliott Huff-hill
Scott Toda
Ennis Dunning
Deontrell Gray
Michael Jerome
Mackenzie Kline
Joshua Moore
Robert Owens
Karl Pearson
Play slideshow
Pause slideshow
View all warrants
Inmate Search
Find an inmate by sorting by first name, last name, or booking date.
Search All Inmates
Inmate SearchContact Us
715 S. Calhoun St. Room 101,
Fort Wayne, IN 46802-1805Office:(260) 449-7535Non-Emergency:(260) 449-3000Emergency:911
DepartmentMenu Toggle
Contact Us
Join Our Team
Divisions
Jail
Animal Control Field Service Officers
News & EventsMenu Toggle
Activity Logs
Inmate Search
Sheriff Sale
ResourcesMenu Toggle
Criminal Records Check
External Links
Fingerprints
Inmate Search
Sex Offenders
Smart911 Portal
EducationMenu Toggle
Classes
K-9 Training Request
Facility Request
© 2025
Allen County Sheriff's Department
Privacy
Accessibility
Alert
JavaScript is disabled
This site requires JavaScript to function properly.
How to enable
We use cookies
Our site uses cookies to enhance your site experience. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our use of cookies.
OK
Privacy Policy
We use cookies
Our site uses cookies to enhance your site experience. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our use of cookies.
Privacy Policy