Cogeco Cable Launches the Mlle Channel and Tops Up Its
Accessibility: Skip TopNav
Cogeco Cable Launches the Mlle Channel and Tops Up Its French HD Offering in Quebec
July 21, 2011 16:56 ET
| Source:
Cogeco Cable Inc.
Cogeco Cable Inc.
MONTREAL, QUEBEC--(Marketwire - July 21, 2011) - Cogeco Cable (TSX:CCA) today announced the launch of the new digital Mlle channel in standard and High Definition (HD) versions, along with the addition of the Cinépop HD channel to its HD TV line-up. As of today, Mlle will be offered to all Cogeco Cable Digital Television customers in Québec, and Mlle HD and Cinépop HD will be offered to most Digital Television customers in Québec.
"We are really pleased to be the first in our territory to launch Mlle, a channel women have been eagerly waiting for. It allows us to offer our customers fresh and distinctive French-language content that meets a real need," explained Ron Perrotta, Vice-President, Marketing and Strategic Planning at Cogeco Cable.
Mlle is a channel designed for Québec women passionate about style, beauty and wellness. It provides practical content that is uplifting, entertaining and packed with tips, trends and new products, including six original Québec series. Cogeco Cable is the first to offer Mlle and Mlle HD to consumers in its Québec service area.
On Cinépop HD, film and cinema loving customers can now watch and rewatch the greatest movies and the greatest stars of all time in HD. Cinépop HD presents a selection of unforgettable films from the 1950s to today, uncut and with no commercial breaks.
"Mlle HD and Cinépop HD further enhance the French-language HD line-up our customers in Québec know and love. Because our customers are the focus of everything we do, we make every effort we can to bring them the very best in HD programming by selecting the most exciting and relevant content on the market. And the growth we're seeing in HD service is a perfect indication of how much our customers appreciate the variety, quality and choice we give them," Mr. Perrotta added.
Mlle (channel 97) and Mlle HD (channel 529) will be unscrambled until October 20, 2011. Following that, customers who wish to subscribe to Mlle (standard or HD version*) will be able to add it to their Select package, choose a pre-packaged offer that already includes the channel or subscribe a la carte. Subscribers interested in Cinépop HD (channel 524) can include it in their Select package or opt for a pre-packaged offer that already includes the channel, such as the Franco. Customers who already subscribe to Cinépop in standard definition and have an HD terminal will automatically be able to access the HD version for free*.
And, adding these HD channels results in no additional cost to customers who already subscribe to the standard version. The complete HD program line-up and information on subscribing to HD and the equipment required are available on Cogeco's website at cogeco.ca.
ABOUT COGECO CABLE
Cogeco Cable (www.cogeco.ca) is the second largest hybrid fibre coaxial cable system operator in Ontario, Québec and Portugal. Through its two-way broadband cable networks, Cogeco Cable provides its residential customers with Audio, Analogue and Digital Television, as well as HSI and Telephony services. Cogeco Cable also provides to its commercial customers, through its subsidiary Cogeco Diffusion Inc., data networking, e-business applications, video conferencing, hosting services, Ethernet, private line, VoIP, HSI access, dark fibre, data storage, data security and co-location services and other advanced communication solutions. Cogeco Cable's subordinate voting shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:CCA).
* HD channel availability may vary per region.
Contact Information: Catherine PleauAdvisor, Corporate Communications514-764-4762