Pill Hill Radio | OurStage
Cookies help us deliver this site and services. By using this site and our services, you agree to our use of cookies.
Got it
existing artist account?
Search
Check out amazing
how talent gets noticed
Amazing Radio helps new and emerging artists get discovered and make money.
We recently launched CMJ TV - the brand new source for on demand and live music videos.
Upload your tunes and music videos today!
find out more
Pill Hill Radio
brooklyn, NY
Biography
Pill Hill Radio was formed in 2007 in Brooklyn, New York.  Born and bred in the county of Kings, the band came up in a time when there was a church and a bar on every block and an open hydrant was a summer vacation.
Armed with the wisdom of to many last calls, PHR pounds home a rock show with heartfelt lyrics and sing along choruses
"a Brooklyn bonanza of a debut: teary.beery and road weary gems inhabited by outer-borough desperado's swallowed by the shadows of New York City - like Steve Earl...Pill Hill Radio was formed in 2007 in Brooklyn, New York.  Born and bred in the county of Kings, the band came up in a time when there was a church and a bar on every block and an open hydrant was a summer vacation.
Armed with the wisdom of to many last calls, PHR pounds home a rock show with heartfelt lyrics and sing along choruses
"a Brooklyn bonanza of a debut: teary.beery and road weary gems inhabited by outer-borough desperado's swallowed by the shadows of New York City - like Steve Earle with his freshly swiped Metrocard" states Brian O'Connor NY POST.
"From the opening notes of "Pill Hill Radio" I was convinced I had been transplanted by time and place", writes Wildy of Wildy's World Music Blog. "The songwriting is outstanding and PHR is a plus performer."
Pill Hill has just finished recording their second LP that will be released in early 2009 with a subsequent Northeast tour to follow.show more...
Songs (11)
two candles
train
Mary
tommorow
campfire song
the last beauty queen
whiskey pride
bridgette
halfway
Bridgette Reprise
Immune
Playlists (1)
Music Favorites
© Amazing Media Group 2007-2025
About | Cookies & Privacy