Tulsa Today | local news service
Tulsa Today
local news service
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Local
State
National
Business
Out & About
Science
Tulsa Speaks
Sports
Contact
Search for:
New Muskogee Safety ComplexTulsa Housing Market Sees Strong StartMajor Disaster Declaration for OK
OK AG Supports TransparencyHow Oklahoma Fails EducationOK Initiative Petition Reform Needed
Inflation Eases: Job Creation SoarsBills Advance for OK Military Base SupportNew Muskogee Safety Complex
123
New Muskogee Safety Complex
By David Arnett
Muskogee County leaders announced today the Bass Reeves Memorial Public Safety Complex, a transformative investment in public safety that will enhance emergency response times, reduce costs, and modernize aging facilities for first responders throughout the County.
The $27.8 million, 60,000-square-foot complex will house operations for Muskogee County EMS, Muskogee Police Department, the Muskogee County Sheriff’s Office, City of Muskogee Fire Department, 911 dispatch, city and county Emergency Management, and the Muskogee County Fire Tax Board. Its downtown location near 6th and Columbus will allow for faster emergency response and improved coordination among agencies. The facility will include bay areas, storage facilities, classrooms, and administrative offices.
Continue reading →
This entry was posted in State on March 24, 2025 by Admin.
Tulsa Housing Market Sees Strong Start
By David Arnett
The Tulsa housing market kicked off 2025 with a significant surge in new home construction, recording 467 housing starts in January, more than doubling the 199 starts from the same month in 2024 according to the Tulsa Home Builders Association report released today.
Continue reading →
This entry was posted in Business, Local on March 20, 2025 by Admin.
Major Disaster Declaration for OK
By David Arnett
WASHINGTON — FEMA announced today that federal disaster assistance has been approved by President Donald J. Trump and is available to the state of Oklahoma to supplement recovery efforts in the areas affected by the severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes and flooding from Nov. 2-5, 2024.
FEMA’s mission is helping people before, during and after disasters.
Tornado Damage in Sulphur, OK. November 2024, Photo: USAToday.com
Continue reading →
This entry was posted in State on March 20, 2025 by Admin.
OK AG Supports Transparency
By David Arnett
Attorney General Gentner Drummond today in a release is urging legislators to significantly strengthen government transparency by passing House Bill 2163. His push for the measure comes during Sunshine Week, an annual event spotlighting the importance of public records and open government.
Authored by Rep. John Pfeiffer and Sen. Brent Howard, HB 2163 would statutorily create the Public Access Counselor unit in the Office of the Attorney General to review complaints where the requester believes a state department, board or commission has not addressed the request in a timely and reasonable manner.
Let’s hope this includes the Attorney General’s own office that is years past due in responding to this publication’s request for information on the unsolved Gertrude Marshall Blakey murder now over 44 years ago. The Tulsa Police Department will not release the file, claims the investigation is ongoing, but no investigation is being done. Someone is lying like a snake in the grass.
OK AG Genter Drummond at a Tulsa area breakfast meeting
Continue reading →
This entry was posted in State on March 19, 2025 by Admin.
How Oklahoma Fails Education
By David Arnett
V1SUT.Substack today connects the dots on how Oklahoma’s power elite continues to betray voter’s desire to improve education. Of course, Tulsa’s “highly progressive” George Kaiser Family Foundation is a key player. Further, the Board of Control for Southern Regional Education (a non-profit with ties to USAID funding) is helping our two-stepping politicians pander to power and money.
Continue reading →
This entry was posted in Local, State on March 17, 2025 by Admin.
Post navigation
← Older posts
Cart
Proudly powered by WordPress