AEP to Install New NOx Controls at Muskingum - LCG Consulting :: EnergyOnline
HOME
Services
News
Press Release
LCG News
Data
Archives
Products
Software
Consulting
Reports
Recent Projects
Competition
Market Simulation
Transmission
Mergers
Careers
About LCG
History
LCG Consulting
Contact
Contact
SEARCH
Services
News
Press Releases
LCG News
Data
Archives
RSS FEED
EnergyOnline.com
News
SPP Receives FERC Approval to be First RTO Operating in Both Eastern and Western Interconnections
LCG, March 205, 2025--The Southwest Power Pool (SPP) today announced it will soon be the first regional transmission organization (RTO) in the nation to provide full services in both the Eastern and Western Interconnections of the U.S. power grid. On March 20, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) unanimously approved Southwest Power Pool’s amended tariff that includes provisions that enable Western members to join the RTO. The expansion of the SPP RTO is scheduled to go live April 1, 2026.
Read more
LCG Unveils 2nd Edition of 2025 ERCOT Electricity Market Outlook
LCG, March 20, 2025 – LCG Consulting (LCG) has released a second edition of its annual outlook of the ERCOT wholesale electricity market for 2025, highlighting the region's rapid transition toward increased reliance on renewable energy resources and battery storage.
Read more
Industry News
AEP to Install New NOx Controls at Muskingum
LCG, Aug. 23, 2001--American Electric Power Co. said yesterday it would build a new emission control system on one unit of its Muskingum River power plant in southeastern Ohio.The selective catalytic reduction, or SCR, system will reduce nitrogen oxide, or NOx, emissions from the 585 megawatt unit by about 85 percent, the company said. AEP is reducing NOx emissions to comply with new U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations.Construction will begin this month and the installation should be completed by May 2003.The Muskingum River plant SCR unit represents an additional investment of $71.4 million by AEP in NOx reduction technology, the company said. Muskingum River plant's Unit 5 also is equipped with low-NOx burners. AEP said that since 1993 has invested more than $160 million to install low-NOx burners on its Midwestern power plants and has reduced NOx emission rates by about 30 percent through that effort.Of the new SCR system, Muskingum general manager Dan Kohler said "This not only represents a strong investment in our plant's future, it also represents an important contribution to the health and diversity of the local area economy," and added that there would be a lot of jobs offered during construction.
Print
Top
Copyright © 2025
LCG Consulting. All rights reserved. Terms and Copyright
Products
UPLAN-NPM
The Locational Marginal Price Model (LMP) Network Power Model
Uniform Storage Model
A Battery Simulation Model
UPLAN-ACE
Day Ahead and Real Time Market Simulation
UPLAN-G
The Gas Procurement and Competitive Analysis System
PLATO
Database of Plants, Loads, Assets, Transmission...
Services
CAISO CRR Auctions
Monthly Price and Congestion Forecasting Service
Workshops
US OFFICE
4962 El Camino Real, Suite 112
Los Altos, CA 94022
U.S.A.
Tel: (650) 962-9670
EUROPEAN OFFICE
33 Avenue du Maine, BP 31
75755 Paris Cedex 15
France
Tel: +33(0) 1-44-10-40-47