Film History Milestones - 1912
Filmsite: written by Tim Dirks
Search for:
Go
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
GREATEST FILMS
Greatest Films: Overview
100 Greatest Films
101-200 Greatest Films
201-300 Greatest Films
200 Greatest Films - By Decade
300 Greatest Films - By Decade
Greatest Films - By Year
Top 100 Box Office of All-Time
Top Films of All-Time
Greatest Film Series-Franchises
Greatest Films - Criteria
Most Influential Films
Greatest American Movies - AFI
Other Lists of Great Films
REVIEWS
Film Reviews: Overview
All Film Reviews
Greatest Film Reviews - By Decade
Film Reviews - Most Popular
Film Reviews - Moments & Scenes
Film Terms - Glossary
Film Viewing - Tips
Movie Trivia Quizzes
Film References
THE BEST
"Greatest" and "Best" Collections
Best
Genre-Type Films
Bond Films - Best to Worst
'Chick Flicks'
Guy Movies
Three Great Horror Franchises
Sexiest Films of All-Time
Greatest War Films
Greatest Westerns
Greatest Zombie Films
Top Film Franchises-Series
Movie Title Screens
Plot Twists, Spoilers, Surprise Endings
Best Film Speeches & Monologues
James Bond Films
Great Bond Girls
Film Noir - Greatest Femmes Fatales
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 States: Most Authentic Films
Greatest Movie Props of All-Time
Robots in Film
HISTORY
Film History: Overview
Film History - By Decade
Film History Milestones - By Year
Great Films - By Year
Box Office Greats
Top 100 Blockbusters
Top 100 Films of All-Time
Top Box-Office Hits - By Decade/Year
Top Summer Blockbusters of All-Time
Biggest Box Office Bombs & Flops
Sex in Cinema - Comprehensive History
Most Controversial Films
Visual & Special Effects Milestones
Movie Title Screens: Film Franchises
Greatest Movie Props in Film History
Great Christmas Movies
GENRES
Main Film Genres
Action
Adventure
Comedy
Crime-Gangster
Drama
Epics-Historical
Horror
Musicals-Dance
Science Fiction
War
Westerns
Film Sub-Genres
Biopics
Chick Flicks
Courtroom Dramas
Detective-Mystery
Disaster
Fantasy
Film Noir
Guy Films
Melodramas
Road Films
Romance
Sports
Super-Heroes
Supernatural
Thrillers-Suspense
Zombies
Other Major Film Categories
Animated
British-UK
Children/Family
Classic
Cult
Documentary
Serial
Sexual-Erotic
Silent
Sub-Genres Types (and Hybrids)
Best Picture Genre Biases
Summary of Top Films by Genre
Top 100 Films By Genre Type
100 Greatest Cult Films
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 Best Sci-Fi Films of All-Time
AFI's Top 10 Film Genres
All-Time Highest-Grossing by Genre
SCENES
Scenes: Overview
Scenes: Compilations
Greatest Scenes: Collections
Greatest Chases
Greatest Crowds
Greatest Deaths
Greatest Disasters
Greatest Entrances
Funniest Scenes
Scariest Scenes
Sexual - Erotic Scenes
Film Kisses of All-Time
Greatest Music: Song & Dance
Greatest Tearjerkers
What's a Great Film Scene?
Scenes Mini-Quiz
100s of the Greatest Film Scenes
100 Greatest Film Scenes
100 Most Iconic Film Scenes
100 + Scariest Movie Images of All-Time
100 Great Movie Moments (Ebert)
50 Greatest Moments (TV Guide)
Sex in Cinema - Scenes
OSCARS
Academy Awards: Overview
Academy Awards: By Decade and Year
Top Award Winners: Summary
Best Picture
Best Picture: Movie Title Screens
Best Picture - Milestones
Best Picture - Genre Biases
Best Director
Best Actor
Best Actress
Best Supporting Actor
Best Supporting Actress
Best Screenplay/Writer
Mistakes and Omissions
Snubbed by Oscar
Worst Oscar Awards
QUOTES
Great Quotes: Overview
Top 100 Greatest Film Quotes
Great Film Quotes: By Decade
50 Great Movie Quotes
Most Popular Movie Quotes
Top 10 Most Famous Quotes
Top 10 Best Lines Ever
Top 10 Comedy Movie Lines
Top 10 Worst Quotes
Quotes: Speeches & Monologues
Greatest Film Misquotes
Great Opening Film Lines
Great Last Film Lines
Funniest Movie Quotes
Greatest Brief Film Quotes
Film Taglines
DIRECTORS & STARS
Directors/Stars: Overview
50 Greatest Actors/Actresses
Greatest Stars: Roles & Films
Greatest Film Characters of All-Time
Greatest Film Star Legends
Sexy Hollywood Bombshells
Greatest Film Directors
More Great Directors
Film Director Cameos
Stanley Kubrick's Greatest Films
Alfred Hitchcock's Greatest Films
Hitchcock's Film Cameos
Hitchcock's MacGuffins
Timeline of Greatest Film
Milestones and Turning Points
in Film History
The Year 1912
Timeline of Greatest Film History Milestones and Turning Points
(by decade and year)
Introduction | Pre-1900s | 1900s | 1910s | 1920s | 1930s | 1940s | 1950s
1960s | 1970s | 1980s | 1990s | 2000s | 2010s | 2020s
1910, 1911, 1912, 1913, 1914, 1915, 1916, 1917, 1918, 1919
The Year 1912
Year
Event and Significance
1912
Photoplay, the first true movie "fan"
magazine, debuted and gave rise to the whole idea of a celebrity and fan
culture. By the early 1920's, over a dozen such magazines crowded the news-stands
with names like Cinema Art, Film Fun, Motion Picture Journal, Movie Weekly,
Picture Play, and Screenland.
1912
Carl Laemmle merged his IMP (the Independent Moving Pictures Company) with other independent production studios to
found the Universal Motion Picture (or Film) Manufacturing Company, which was to become the first major, long-lasting Hollywood studio. Significantly, the independents made longer 'feature' films
than the short one-reelers produced by the MPPC.
1912
Jesse
Lasky  formed the Jesse L. Lasky Feature Play Company in partnership
with his brother-in-law Samuel Goldfish (later renamed Samuel Goldwyn) and Cecil
B. DeMille.
1912
Reportedly the first ever closeup shot in a motion picture
was of Mary Pickford (as orphan Dora) in the silent film short Friends
(1912).
1912
Adolph Zukor founded
an independent film studio named the Famous Players Film Company, with
the release or distribution of films arranged with a new start-up organization named Paramount Pictures Corporation by 1914, the first successful nationwide distributor.
1912
Adolph Zukor's Famous Players' first release
(opening in New York City at the Lyceum Theatre) was the four-reel French import Queen Elizabeth (aka Les Amours de la Reine Élisabeth) with famous stage actress
Sarah Bernhardt in the title role. It was the first full-length drama shown
in the United States, and the third film to be shown in its entirety, in its US premiere in July. New York society elites attended the premiere of the
film, helping to extend the film's reach (and the entire medium of film)
to the upper classes and bring respectability to the new medium of film.
1912
By 1912, fifteen film companies
were operating in Hollywood.
1912
It has been claimed that London Evening News correspondent
W. G. Faulkner, who began a regular 'kinema' weekly column on January
17, 1912, was the UK's first film critic.
1912
The first American serial
film was the Edison Company's melodrama What Happened to Mary? (1912)
(12 episodes, each consisting of one-reel), starring actress Mary Fuller.
A print version of the storyline was concurrently published in McClure's
Ladies' World magazine.
1912
H. A. Spanuth's five-reel production
of Oliver Twist (1912)  was released - it was
the first US-produced  film to last over an hour (the definition
of a feature film), and to be shown in
its entirety. Only four of its five reels have survived. In the same
year, director Thomas Bentley's Oliver Twist (1912, UK) was the
first British feature-length photoplay.
1912
A  feature-length Kinemacolor silent
British documentary With
Our King and Queen through India (1912, UK) (aka The Delhi Durbar or
The Durbar at Delhi),  originally 126 minutes
in length (it was composed of a set of films) and the  longest film-show
to  date, was the world's first color blockbuster. Only about 10
minutes of the original film survived. The film recorded
the 1911 Delhi Durbar - a spectacular ceremony held in Delhi,
India to recognize the newly-crowned King George V as Emperor of India.
1912
The dramatic romance Lorna Doone (1912, UK) was
the first British five-reel feature.
1912
The five-reel Richard III (1912), starring Frederick
Warde, was thought to be the earliest surviving complete feature film
made in the US.
1912
The process of panchromatic film was first made or
devised in 1912 by French producer Leon Gaumont. [Kodak Eastman, the
leading supplier of film stock, introduced  panchromatic film in September 1913 for the US market.] Panchromatic film was a type of
black and white film sensitive to light of all colors (including red),
thereby making the picture more realistic. The first feature film made
entirely with the new emulsion (panchromatic negative film stock) was The
Headless Horseman (1922).
1912
Female director Alice Guy-Blache's short film A Fool
and His Money (1912), made by her Solax Studios in Fort Lee, NJ,
was notable as the first film ever made with a cast comprised only
of African-American performers.
1912
Director  Étienne
Arnaud's Saved From the Titanic (1912), a one reel, 10 minute
film (a "lost film" destroyed in an Eclair American studio
fire in 1914), was released (it premiered on May 14, 1912, a month to
the day after the ship collided with the iceberg) - it was the first
film adaptation about the disaster. The film was based upon actress,
star and co-screenwriter Dorothy Gibson's true story of her own survival.
Gibson, who starred in the film as Miss Dorothy, was one of the survivors
who was rescued from the ship, and reportedly wore the same clothes from
the rescue in the film. It was notable that Kinemacolor (the first attempt
by the film industry to colorize film) was used in two scenes. The rare
and restored German film Night
and Ice (aka In Nacht und Eis) by actor/writer/director
Mime Misu was one of the earliest disaster
films. This film was the second of many feature films about
the doomed ship that sank in 1912 on its maiden voyage, after striking
an iceberg.  This film was made and released a few months after the RMS
Titanic's
actual sinking! It was of epic length (35 minutes) in comparison to other
films of the time.
1912
D. W. Griffith's The Musketeers of
Pig Alley (1912)  was released - possibly the first gangster or organized crime
film.
1912
Thomas Ince pioneered the role of film producer
by devising standard production budgeting formulas and introducing a detailed
shooting script.
1912
Kalmus formed the Technicolor Company to market
early versions of the color process.
1912
Director Enrico Guazzoni's
overblown but successful two-hour spectacle Quo Vadis? (1912) was
released - one of the first films with over two hours running time. It
is often considered the first successful feature-length motion picture.
Italian epics  would briefly dominate the international film market.
1912
The first Indian feature film opened in Bombay, India -- the 12-minute silent Pundalik (1912), a B/W short about the Hindu saint Pundalik.
1912
One of the screen's earliest romantic pairs was Francis X. Bushman and Beverly Bane, who first co-starred  in Jack Conway's short crime drama  House of Pride (1912). They were to appear in dozens of films together (for Essanay and Metro), and were considered as the first popular romantic team in US films. [Future romantic pairings included Greta Garbo with leading man John Gilbert, and Ronald Colman with Vilma Banky.] In 1918, Bushman's scandalous extra-marital affair with his long-time co-star Bayne became public, and after divorcing his older wife, Bushman secretly married Bayne  (the studio feared they would lose popularity).
1912
Canadian writer and actor Mack Sennett (the
"King of Comedy") left Biograph and formed the Keystone Film
Company (and Studio) in Edendale (Echo Park/Glendale), a suburb of Los
Angeles. The first Mack Sennett Keystone production was Cohen Collects
a Debt (1912). The first Keystone Kop film from the studio, Hoffmeyer's
Legacy (1912), was released in late 1912. Nearly every major comic
performer in America worked at Keystone during this time, including Fatty
Arbuckle, Mabel Normand and Charlie Chaplin, in mostly slapstick comedy
films. The studio was noted for many film milestones or landmarks: Chaplin's
first film, the first feature-length comedy, etc.
1912
The first Keystone Kops comedy released by Keystone Studios, featuring a group to be known as the Keystone Kops, was director Mack Sennett's Hoffmeyer's Legacy (1912), a lost film. It was the first of twelve Keystone Kops films. The first real (or seminal) Keystone Kops film was released a year later, The Bangville Police (1913).
1912-1913
Motion pictures moved out of nickelodeons and
into real theaters. The first movie palaces began to appear in 1913. Movies
became longer and more expensive as movie companies started hiring the biggest
names in theater to star in their movies. Motion picture acting gained respect
and was no longer looked upon as degrading, due in part to greater attendance
from the American middle-class. The public singled out certain actors and
actresses as special favorites. Some of the actors and actresses who were
the very first movie stars included cowboy actor Bronco Billy Anderson and
comedian John Bunny.
GREATEST FILMS
REVIEWS
THE BEST
HISTORY
GENRES
SCENES
OSCARS
QUOTES
DIRECTORS & STARS
Filmsite Home
About & Contact
Sitemap
FAQ
Reference
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 1996-2025 Filmsite LLC. All rights reserved.