New 'Thing' Creature Footage in Russian Red Band Trailer - Bloody Disgusting
Movies
TV
Reviews
Editorials
Videos
Video Games
BLOODY FM
STORE
NEWSLETTER
Connect with us
Bloody Disgusting!
New ‘Thing’ Creature Footage in Russian Red Band Trailer
MoviesJohn Carpenter Says He’d “Love to Direct Again… Given the Right Circumstances”Pluto TV Halfway to Halloween April Ghouls Celebration Returns Next MonthReal Injury Lawyer Reveals the 10 ‘Final Destination’ Accidents Most Likely to Happen to YOU!6 Underrated Japanese Horror Films to Get You in the Mood for ‘Silent Hill f’Halfway to Halloween With SCREAMBOX: ‘The Coffee Table’, ‘Project MKHEXE’, ‘Art Attack’ & More!
TVThe White Rabbit Gets the Force Edge Sword in Netflix’s “Devil May Cry” ClipJohn Lithgow & Jimmy Smits Will Return in ‘Dexter: Resurrection’Linda Cardellini Officially to Star as Pamela Voorhees in “Crystal Lake” Series from A24Kevin Bacon Prepares for Demonic Battle on “The Bondsman” Poster“Severance” Renewed for Season 3 by Apple TV+
ReviewsBoston Underground Film Festival 2025 – 7 Movies We Watched, from ‘The Surfer’ to ‘Fucktoys’Lifetime’s ‘Trapped in Her Dorm Room’ Tackles Toxic Male Entitlement [Review]SXSW 2025 Review Roundup: Gravedigging Comedy ‘Dead Lover’ to Teen Body Horror Satire ‘Slanted’‘Odyssey’ SXSW Review – Morally Dubious Character Study Explodes into Ultra-Violent Thriller‘Borderline’ Review – A Grating Horror-Comedy Riff on the Madonna Stalker Case
Editorials6 Underrated Japanese Horror Films to Get You in the Mood for ‘Silent Hill f’Boston Underground Film Festival 2025 – 7 Movies We Watched, from ‘The Surfer’ to ‘Fucktoys’Final Chapters, Extinctions & Apocalypses: Ranking All 8 ‘Resident Evil’ Live Action AdaptationsFive Springtime Horror Movies to Stream This Week2015’s ‘The Unspoken’ Has a Secret ‘Amityville’ Connection [The Amityville IP]
VideosThe White Rabbit Gets the Force Edge Sword in Netflix’s “Devil May Cry” ClipSomething Doesn’t Add Up for Michael B. Jordan in ‘Sinners’ ClipPaul Rudd & Will Poulter Have an Awkward Hot Tub Interaction in ‘Death of a Unicorn’ Clip‘The Walking Dead’ Invades ‘Fortnite’ Today as Part of Fortnite Creative [Trailer]Explore ‘Backrooms Level 11’-Inspired Psychological Horror in ‘Liminal City’ [Trailer]
Video Games6 Underrated Japanese Horror Films to Get You in the Mood for ‘Silent Hill f’‘The Walking Dead’ Invades ‘Fortnite’ Today as Part of Fortnite Creative [Trailer]Explore ‘Backrooms Level 11’-Inspired Psychological Horror in ‘Liminal City’ [Trailer]‘Silent Hill f’ Faces Release Hurdle in Australia Over Extreme Violence and HorrorFinal Chapters, Extinctions & Apocalypses: Ranking All 8 ‘Resident Evil’ Live Action Adaptations
BLOODY FM
STORE
NEWSLETTER
Movies
New ‘Thing’ Creature Footage in Russian Red Band Trailer
Published 13 years ago on September 29, 2011
By Brad Miska
BD reader “Omer” tipped us off to the following Russian red band trailer for The Thing that carries more footage, including a better look at “Splitface” and a guy’s face falling apart! Awesome.
In the prequel to John Carpenter’s classic ’80s remake, “Paleontologist Kate Lloyd (Mary Elizabeth Winstead) has traveled to the desolate region for the expedition of her lifetime. Joining a Norwegian scientific team that has stumbled across an extraterrestrial ship buried in the ice, she discovers an organism that seems to have died in the crash eons ago. But it is about to wake up. When a simple experiment frees the alien from its frozen prison, Kate must join the crew’s pilot, Carter (Joel Edgerton), to keep it from killing them off one at a time. And in this vast, intense land, a parasite that can mimic anything it touches will pit human against human as it tries to survive and flourish.”
It defrosts in theaters October 14.
Related Topics:BDTVThe ThingtrailerVideo
Brad Miska
Horror movie fanatic who co-founded Bloody Disgusting in 2001. Producer on Terrifier 3, Southbound, V/H/S/2/3/94/99/85/BEYOND, SiREN, Under the Bed, and A Horrible Way to Die. Chicago-based. Horror, pizza and basketball connoisseur. Taco Bell daily. Franchise favs: Hellraiser, Child's Play, A Nightmare on Elm Street, Halloween, Scream and Friday the 13th. Horror 365 days a year.
Advertisement
You may like
5 of This Week’s Coolest Horror Collectibles Including ‘Nosferatu’ & ‘The Shining’ Retro Decor
‘The Thing’ Gets Special 4K Screening with John Carpenter and Bong Joon Ho in Person
5 of This Week’s Coolest Horror Collectibles Including Glow-in-the-Dark ‘Return of the Living Dead’ Zombies
Click to comment
Movies
John Carpenter Says He’d “Love to Direct Again… Given the Right Circumstances”
Published 5 hours ago on March 25, 2025
By John Squires
Pictured: 'The Thing'
It’s now been 15 years since John Carpenter directed his last movie, 2010’s The Ward, but the horror master has been staying busy with music, comic books, and various other projects. Not long after he finally receives his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame this April, for starters, Carpenter is playing music live in both LA and NY, and he’s even agreed to score Bong Joon Ho’s new horror movie. But will Carpenter himself ever return to the director’s chair?
It’s a question the director of horror classics including Halloween, The Fog and The Thing has been asked many times over the years, and Variety is the latest outlet to pop the question.
John Carpenter’s response? Well, he’d have to find the right circumstances.
“Plans? I don’t know,” Carpenter answered when specifically asked if he has any plans to return to directing. “I would love to direct again, given the right circumstances. But I’m not the same kid anymore who will do it for any amount of money. I can’t back into a budget anymore. I’m too old. It’s too hard. But directing is the love of my life. I’ll never stop loving that.”
It’s a similar answer to the one Carpenter gave to the very same question back in 2019, when he told Collider that “he’d love to make a little horror film”… but with a catch to the statement.
Carpenter said in 2019, “It would be a project that I like that’s budgeted correctly. Nowadays they make these young directors do movies for $2 million when the movie is written for $10 million. So you have to squeeze it all in there and I don’t want to do that any more.”
John Carpenter actually did return to the director’s chair back in 2023 for the Peacock series “John Carpenter’s Suburban Screams,” directing an episode of the series remotely from home.
Continue Reading
Trending
Movies4 days ago
Friday, March 21 – These 8 New Horror Movies Released This Week
TV1 day ago
Linda Cardellini Officially to Star as Pamela Voorhees in “Crystal Lake” Series from A24
Movies1 day ago
First Look at Tony Todd in ‘Final Destination Bloodlines’
Movies6 days ago
‘The Toxic Avenger’ Teaser Trailer Mops Up the Streets and Delivers Gory Justice
Movies4 days ago
‘A Desert’ Trailer and Poster Invite You on Nihilistic Neo-Noir Horror Road Trip
About
Advertise
Contact
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Use
Newsletter
Copyright © 2025 Cineverse
Loading Comments...
You must be logged in to post a comment.