20 Things to do in Cuba, MO...Route 66 Mural City -
Skip to content
MuralsMap of the MuralsThe MuralsMural ArtistsOther ArtBeautificationAdopt a StreetTrash BashContact Us/ToursViva Cuba BlogDonate
20 Things to do in Cuba, MO…Route 66 Mural City
Previous Next
20 Things to do in Cuba, MO…Route 66 Mural City
Revised 2024
Welcome to Cuba, Missouri! Also known as the Route 66 Mural City, Cuba is known for art, history, water, and wine! We’ve uncovered 20 things to do in Cuba, Missouri that will bring smiles to the whole family! We’ve even uncovered a few awesome fun selfie spots travelers can’t resist! Every corner is Instagram-worthy! Come see what we mean.
First thing, download the VISITCUBAMO app from Google Play or the Apple Store. Once installed users have access to maps, events, and descriptions of area attractions, restaurants, wineries, and much more.
Tour the Outdoor Murals
Situated along the Route 66 corridor, the Historic Uptown tells Cuba’s history from the start in 1857. Each mural depicts an iconic tale of war, adventure, intrigue, and love. Pick up a FREE mural map at the Visitors Center or Uptown near the murals. Better yet, use the VISITCUBAMO app to navigate the mural trail. Learn more.
Millworks Murals pictures the vintage building where Francis Nixon worked on 54 years.
Tour the Indoor Murals
The moniker, Route 66 Mural City is well deserved. Walk into any of the many businesses in Cuba and see more works of art. At Mace grocery, the produce section has a glorious mural that shows a farmer’s bounty.  The local bakery has artwork inside and out. The interior walls are covered with bread bakers and country scenes. Outside around the back, playful characters adorn the building. At the Midway Petroleum Plaza, look overhead for a delightful array of classic automobiles painted by famous muralist Ray Harvey to celebrate Route 66. Even the Crawford County Historical Museum has interior murals depicting life as a teenager in the 1950’s. Learn more.
Visit the Museum
The Crawford County Historical Society is not what you expect from a small-town museum. In fact, exhibits rotate monthly to keep patrons coming back. View artifacts and exhibits that include handmade quilts, vintage apparel, Osage artifacts, archaic farm tools, and much more.  Located at 308 N. Smith Street in Cuba, MO. Learn more.
This was the original school that was later torn down. It sat in front of the present museum.
Explore Recklein Commons
This quiet street provides a beautiful setting for the Cuba Veterans Memorial. This granite monument is inscribed with the names of local veterans who served our country.  Across the street, the Crawford County Public Library District provides books, videos, internet access, and printers. Learn more.
The History Museum has been part of Cuba’s history since 1934.
Cruise Historic Route 66
The city of Cuba is fortunate to have Route 66 run through the center of town. At the intersection of Route 66 and Highway 19 is Weir on 66, a new take on an old tradition. Formerly the Fourway, this new eatery welcomes travelers into a  1931 Phillips 66 Station for a unique dining experience. Along the route is the Historic Landmark Wagon Wheel Motel & Connie”s Shoppe, the oldest operating motel on Route 66.
Cuba’s Murals along the Route 66 Corridor have spurred public art projects throughout town.
Go to the County Fair
Join the city of Cuba at the Crawford County Fair every July. A tradition for over  70 years, the county fair offers agricultural exhibits, pageants, LIVE concerts, food, and carnival rides. Located at Hood Park, this event is family-friendly and is a guaranteed good time! Learn more.
Harry Truman attended the fair in the 1940s.
Stop at the Fanning Outpost
A fun and delicious stop on Route 66, this stop is a prime source of gourmet popcorn, flavored fudge, funky sodas, and Route 66 memorabilia. Outside, travelers encounter the largest Red Rocker in Missouri which presents the perfect selfie opportunity. If you want the whole family in the picture, the friendly folks inside will take the photo for you! Learn more.
This group of Spyder Riders returned for a new photo of their colorful bikes with the Route 66 Red Rocker.
Discover Local Osage History
Stop at the Cuba Visitor Center off I-44 EXIT 208. Upon arrival, the 35 ft. tall steel Osage Legacy Monument, created by local artist Glen Tutterow, greets travelers. Inside the center, watch a short documentary about the Osage people and their impact on today’s highway system. See artworks or George Catlin, a famed artist for painting Native Americans.  Learn more.
The Osage were a brave tribe that inhabited Missouri and traveled the Osage Trail.
Embrace Local Flavors
Eat, drink, and be merry at locally-owned and operated eateries. Choose from award-winning BBQ from Missouri Hick. Or all aboard at Frisco’s Grill and Pub for great American comfort food in a train station atmosphere. Savor a great breakfast or lunch at Shelly’s Route 66 Cafe. Take your taste buds south of the border at Riviera Maya where the margaritas are cold and the salsa is hot! But wait, there’s more! Visit Peaceful Bend Winery for local wine, brews, and delicious menu options that include locally sourced ingredients.   Learn more.
MO Hick BBQ on Route 66
Play in the Park
Cuba Missouri loves to play. Visit Hood Park, home of the Crawford County Fair. Here visitors can walk, bike, fish, play ball, have a picnic and so much more. To cool off, go to Tangle Creek Park, home to the Cuba Municipal Pool and Splash Park. For a quiet stroll or stop, visit Viva Cuba Gardens at the center of town. Created and maintained by Viva Cuba volunteers, this park is a beautiful space to walk, read, or reflect on the day. The garden includes an 1873 Train Replica created by local artists Glen and Curtis Tutterrow.  Learn more.
The train replica reminds us of our heritage as a railroad town.
Come to Cuba Fest
On the third Saturday in October, Cuba rolls out the welcome mat for a day of autumn fun. To commemorate Cuba’s history, free narrated tours of the murals and cemeteries are on the schedule. Watch as local civic clubs make apple butter, or enter the chili cook-off contest that is always a crowd favorite. This annual event is FREE.  Learn more.
The trolley is heading back to Cuba Fest for another tour group.
Play a Round of Golf
The Cuba Lakes Golf Course on Hwy. O offers a two–lake course challenge. This nine-hole course is meticulously maintained and will not disappoint. After a round, end the day with a drink and a meal at the clubhouse. This is a favorite spot for Sunday Brunch!
Cuba Lakes Golf Club opened in 1973.
Float the Meramec River
There is nothing like floating in the cool waters of the Meramec on a hot Missouri day! Plan a guided trip or bring your own boat or inner tube, either way, outdoor enthusiasts will love it! To get on the river, go to the Riverview Public Access on Highway O, just outside of Cuba for a park complete with parking, picnic tables, and a boat launch.  Learn more.
Go to Jail
Back in 1908, there was the calaboose or the local jailhouse. Residents of Cuba felt better that the nefarious criminals were secured. Peek inside to see what life was like for a criminal in Cuba at the turn of the century. Learn more.
Preserving the history of Cuba’s Calaboose.
Get Tall
Get a selfie with the tallest man who ever lived and his shoes! Visit the Hayes Shoe Store on Route 66 to see a cardboard cutout of Robert Wadlow who was from Alton, Missouri. His shoes, a mere 37 AA in size, are on display. While there, check out the other antique shoes on display. Be sure to pick up a commemorative pin. Learn more.
You can get a souvenir collector’s pin at Hayes Shoe Store.
Get Small
Visit the Toy Car and Truck Museum inside the Midwest Travel Plaza right next to Dottie’s Family Restaurant. This impressive collection spans decades with cars, trucks, and trains that kept youngsters entertained for hours decades ago.
Discover National Landmarks
For those who love Mother Road nostalgia, stay at the iconic Wagon Wheel Motel, the oldest operating motel on Route 66. The iconic neon sign, designed by owner John Mathis around 1947, welcomed travelers to the Wagon Wheel Motel as it still does today. The Wagon Wheel was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 2003. Learn more.
Uncover the Best Antiques
When it comes to antiques, Cuba’s Antique Mall is just what you’re looking for. Start with Two Olde Crows and find vintage quilts, cast iron, and items you never thought you’d see again. Then head over next door to Mary’s Country Store, where there are aisles of collectibles, hand-braided rugs, classic furniture, and so much more. Head uptown to Spirals Gallery for a collection of antiques and home furnishings that will inspire you.  Learn more.
Well-lit glass cases hold an abundance of special items.
And we are just getting started! There are so many Route 66 attractions and things to do in Cuba, MO, we want to keep you coming back! Please contact attractions directly for specific information on seasonal hours. For more information about Cuba, contact the Cuba Visitors Center at 573-885-2531 or email us at info@visitcubamo.com.
By Viva Cuba|2024-01-28T11:19:26-06:00May 3rd, 2009|Events, Murals, News, Public Art|13 Comments
Share This!
FacebookXEmail
Related Posts
Cuba Missouri – A Town With Stories
Gallery
Cuba Missouri – A Town With Stories
September 16th, 2024
A Couple’s Getaway: A Weekend in Cuba MO
Gallery
A Couple’s Getaway: A Weekend in Cuba MO
July 18th, 2024
Traveling Route 66 With Pets in Cuba MO
Gallery
Traveling Route 66 With Pets in Cuba MO
July 18th, 2024
Cultural and Historical Stops in Cuba
Gallery
Cultural and Historical Stops in Cuba
May 28th, 2024
Greetings from Cuba Missouri
Gallery
Greetings from Cuba Missouri
April 17th, 2024
Route 66: An American Story in Motion
Gallery
Route 66: An American Story in Motion
March 19th, 2024
13 Comments
Bob Dorr
November 20, 2012 at 10:30 am
I have a postcard I picked up in December of 1954 when myself and five other Airman were traveling from Amerillo to New England to celebrate Christmas with our families.We were all students at Amerillo AFB
We stopped in Cuba at the Wagon Wheel Cafe for lunch on the Sunday before Christmas. The owners were Mr.and Mrs. William H. Pratt. The phone number was 30.
I am hoping to visit Cuba sometime next summer and wanted to stop by the Cafe.
Bob Dorr
jane
November 20, 2012 at 11:04 am
Bob, The Wagon Wheel Motel was purchased in 2009 and has been beautifully restored. The cafe building is the motel office and gift shop. If you look under the Best of the Blogs, you will find an update on the Wagon Wheel or you can do a search on the blog page to see photos and information. Be sure to schedule time at the Wagon Wheel and to see Cuba’s murals. We have some good places to eat as well.
Thanks for sharing your memories. We would love to see your postcard too.
Cuba, Missouri Murals takes video on the road… Cuba, MO – Route 66 Mural City
July 8, 2013 at 12:45 pm
[…] Read “20 Things to Do in Cuba, Missouri…” […]
Shirley Whie
October 4, 2015 at 7:46 pm
What about Bob’s Gasoline Alley? It is an amazing place.
jane
October 5, 2015 at 8:48 am
Bob’s Gasoline Alley is an amazing place, but at this time, it is not open to the public, except by appointment, so we did not post it.
Ingo
April 13, 2016 at 12:21 pm
21st thing is missed…meet very friendly and helpful people in this little town! I come and visit every year since 2006 and this town became my 2nd home! I really love everything in Cuba…go and visit guys!
Viva Cuba
April 13, 2016 at 3:59 pm
Thanks so much for your kind words. Please visit our Facebook page Cuba MO Murals & More and tell us what you like about Cuba. Feel free to post a photo.
Sarah Mullin
May 16, 2016 at 8:08 am
My husband will be coming down in May to work.  We are so EXCITED to come and see your beautiful town!  We love to travel with him! I noticed several things were dated from several years ago on activities.  We have 3 children ages 7,6 and 1. We will be staying in a camper and looking for things to do in the day.  Can you please give me some ideas of fun things to do with them that is currently open in May.  Thank you so much ! 🙂
Viva Cuba
May 16, 2016 at 2:20 pm
We are happy to have your family visit our town. Stop at the Cuba Visitor Center, located at Exit 208,  for local maps and brochures. Visit the Facebook page https://www.facebook.com/cubamopool/ for the Cuba Swimming Pool hours. There is also a park next to the pool for picnics. Onondaga Cave is nearby in Leasburg, and it would be a great trip for kids and adults. It has a park nearby and walking trails.It also has a very nice RV park. Hood Park, just off Route 66, has a playground and walking trails. This is where the county fair is held in July. Follow the Crawford County Fair on FB for more details. The Route 66 Red Rocker is a must see. There are many churches in town that hold Bible School and special activities in the summer. There is also floating and rafting in the Leesburg/Steelville areas. You will find it quieter during the week than on weekends. Dessert Island is great place for frozen yogurt/custard with custom topics. The ballparks are busy during the summer months too. Visit the Crawford Country History Museum on Smith Street with its many exhibits. You can take a picnic and lunch on the grounds. Across the street is the library, and they have special activities for the kids in the summer.  Get a kid’s camera and let them take digital photos of the murals and other attraction in Cuba.
Sarah
May 16, 2016 at 7:43 pm
Thank you so much for all the great tips and information! 🙂
The Top 5 Motels to Stay at on Historic Route 66
August 19, 2016 at 1:05 pm
[…] Cuba is a wonderful glimpse into a bygone era. Known as mural city, there are over a dozen building murals depicting times past. A large history museum, several antique malls, and a vintage streetcar accompany a number of historic local buildings to give the city historic flair. The world’s largest rocking chair is also here and functions as a memento of the crazy road trip attractions that Route 66 was known for. […]
Rev. Mr. Earl R. Horsefield
June 27, 2017 at 4:20 am
I Am looking for a copy of J.I. Breuers’ book
The History of Crawford County MO to buy
If anyone has a copy they will sell me I
can be reached at his address and phone no.s
Rev. Mr. Earl R. Horsefield 303 Pine Cuba
MO 65453-1618 cell 24/7 573-259-6380 and
land line (no answer machine 573-885-7373
Sylvain
June 27, 2018 at 10:13 am
We’ve being very warmly received when we parked in your city while visiting Route 66.  I would love to have her name because I’m making a video about route 66 and I forget to ask her name
Comments are closed.
Viva Cuba, Inc
P.O. Box H
Cuba, MO 65453
573-885-2627
vivacuba@cubamomurals.com
© 2013-2020 Viva Cuba, Inc
Mural photographs by alise o’brien photography.
Video by Larry McMillian.
No parts of this site/blog should be copied, transmitted by any means, or otherwise used for commercial use.
See full  Disclaimer/Statement of Use
Page load link
Go to Top