JAPAN'S NEXT PUSH IN U.S. MARKETS Japanese companies are into everything from soup to soap. One even moved in near P&G in Cincinnati. If at first they don't succeed, they try and try again. - September 26, 1988
Companies
Markets
Tech
Billy
companies
NewsEconomyYour Money, Your AmericaDavos
marketspremarketsdow 30After-Hoursmarket moversfear & greedworld marketsinvestingmarkets nowbefore the bellromans' numeralQuest's Profitable Moment
techPacificWork TransformedLiving in the FutureInnovateOur Driverless FutureTech BusinessCultureFutureStartups
personal financeMoney EssentialsNew Rules for RetirementMoney MovesCalculatorsFinance Center
Billy Jean
SuccessBoss FilesFresh MoneyEntrepreneursMy American Success Story
More...SURGENewslettersAlerts: Sign up/ManageInteractivesContact UsClosed Captioning
Follow us:
Search News
Symbol Matches
Symbol Starts With
Company Matches
U.S.
International
Switzerland
JAPAN'S NEXT PUSH IN U.S. MARKETS Japanese companies are into everything from soup to soap. One even moved in near P&G in Cincinnati. If at first they don't succeed, they try and try again.
By Brian Dumaine REPORTER ASSOCIATE David J. Morrow
September 26, 1988
(FORTUNE Magazine) – THE JAPANESE are coming . . . again. The first time they relied on cheap labor and sophisticated manufacturing to sell us cars, VCRs, microchips, and the like. Now, in what could become a second great wave, such leading Japanese companies as Suntory, Shiseido, and Kao are planning to sell us soda, cosmetics, and laundry detergent -- the basic, inexpensive consumer goods we buy in vast quantities. This time around, the famed Japanese production skills are almost irrelevant, particularly since the strong yen has wiped out most of Japan's cost advantage. Instead, these outfits are counting on an obsessive attention to customer service to give them their edge over the locals. Already the quiet invasion is gathering force: Last year Japan exported $13.8 billion of inexpensive consumer goods to America -- 16% of its total exports to the U.S. These markets won't be quite so easy to crack as autos and consumer electronics. They are fragmented, dependent on quirky, fickle, and unruly consumers, and require daunting expenditures for advertising. The shrewd marketers that dominate these businesses -- ranging from Procter & Gamble, Campbell Soup, and Coca-Cola to the Limited and Estee Lauder -- have built enormously powerful franchises. Even the Japanese admit that to succeed here, they must find unserved market niches or develop remarkable new products. Certainly they don't expect to catch corporate America off guard a second time. Procter & Gamble and many other U.S. consumer-products companies have been battling the Japanese in their home markets for years, and sometimes winning. Says Edwin Artzt, P&G's vice chairman: ''Japanese competition is going to be significant in the U.S., but it's something we've dealt with before.'' The U.S. consumer-products executives who know what they are up against are uniformly respectful of their Japanese counterparts. Notes consultant Thomas Lifson, a former professor at Columbia University's graduate school of international affairs: ''The Japanese market has become the most demanding in the world. If you can survive there, you can survive anywhere.'' Gordon McGovern, Campbell Soup's CEO and a highly accomplished marketer himself, learned his lesson from Nissin, a Japanese noodlemaker he had never heard of. In 1976 Nissin started selling a dry soup called Oodles of Noodles in American supermarkets; today it holds 4% of the $2.3 billion U.S. soup market. Says McGovern: ''The Japanese are learners. They send people over. They learn the language, the distribution systems. They don't come crashing in on you. One morning we will wake up and they'll have products just as convenient as ours and much lower priced.'' To speed that process, many Japanese firms are starting to buy American businesses that have established channels of distribution and ties to consumers. In May, Kao Corp. -- which sells $4 billion a year of detergent, diapers, and toothpaste in Japan -- bought Andrew Jergens, the Cincinnati manufacturer of beauty lotion and hand soap. When the deal closed, Kao opened its U.S. office provocatively close to the headquarters of P&G, which makes a little hand soap itself under the Ivory brand. Or consider Kirin, the world's No. 2 beverage company after Coca-Cola. Though best known for its beer, it bought up nearly all the Coke bottling companies in northern New England, transforming them into standout performers. Kirin could eventually use that network to sell its own beverages in America. Other examples from the past 12 months: Jusco, a department store chain, bought retailer Talbots; Sony bought CBS Records; and Sunstar, a health products company, bought John O. Butler Co., maker of Protect toothpaste. IN WOOING U.S. customers, the Japanese have bumbled embarrassingly, but they are so determined that they often succeed anyway. According to P&G's Artzt, their remarkable desire to please customers is what makes the difference. Says he: ''It's a mentality. Their focus is on satisfying people up and down the line, in service, cost, and everything.'' The experience of Shiseido, a giant cosmetics company, is typical. In the mid-1960s Shiseido naively attempted to break into the U.S. cosmetics business with the same products it sold in Japan. Only after introducing them in more than 800 U.S. stores, including Bloomingdale's and Saks Fifth Avenue, did the company come to realize how different America's taste in cosmetics is from ; Japan's. Application of Shiseido's makeup required a time-consuming series of steps; Japanese women apparently don't mind, but in America women balked. The cosmetics flopped and Shiseido pulled out of more than 600 of the stores. Instead of quitting, Shiseido set about designing a new line that meets the needs of American women. These cosmetics are beautifully packaged, as easy to use as American brands, and graced with subtle scents. To push its products, the company relies less on advertising than on the kind of service it provides its customers in Japan. Fred Langhammer is executive vice president of Estee Lauder, a New York cosmetics giant that is holding its own against Shiseido in Japan. Says he: ''The service level in Japan is the highest in the world. It starts with the fact that the store manager and his executives come down to the entrance of the store every morning for 15 or 20 minutes and greet the customers.'' In the U.S., Shiseido trains saleswomen in department stores to treat customers lavishly. They offer free facial massages and will remember to call a customer to wish her happy birthday. That is helping Shiseido's U.S. sales grow at a rate of 25%, compounded annually. With its products available in 1,000 stores, fast-growing Shiseido is among the largest cosmetics companies in the U.S. Itokin, which makes and sells clothing for young working women, also had to totally revamp its strategy to survive in the U.S. When it opened its first shop on Madison Avenue in 1984, Itokin sold more than 20 designer labels. Such a wide choice, common in Japanese retailing, confused American customers, and sales languished. In response the company got rid of all but three designers' lines. It did well enough to build a 20-store chain across the U.S., which it now expects to expand to 200 stores over the next few years. AS IN THE CASE of Shiseido, Itokin's success largely stems from its dedication to customer service. ''Repetition is the key,'' says Eiichi Tsujimura, managing director of Itokin. ''You have to keep telling your people about service until they don't think about it but just do it.'' Each morning at 9, Itokin salespeople meet with their store managers to discuss how business went the day before: which items are moving, which not, which should be put on sale -- and how to treat customers better. Meanwhile, Itokin's American competitors, battered by mergers, layoffs, and cost-cutting binges, find themselves understaffed and their remaining employees demoralized. Sales positions at many American stores are dead-end jobs. At Itokin, salespeople get commissions as well as salaries, and are urged to make careers there. An American retailer can expect 100% turnover of its sales force every three years. Itokin has experienced 30% turnover during the past four years. Kao, the company that bought Jergens, is preparing to launch some of its own household products in the U.S., using Jergens's national marketing and distribution. Unlike its American competitors, Kao sends out its R&D people along with its marketers to talk with store managers and housewives. Explains Yoshio Maruta, 73, Kao's sprightly president: ''We start product development not from the viewpoint of what we can do to make the company more profitable or to increase market share, but how we can help our customers.'' The sentiment sounds corny, but watch it work. When the company was developing a new laundry detergent called Attack, it discovered that Japanese housewives wanted a superconcentrated detergent that cleaned well. Kao's R&D team gradually developed one they say is four times more concentrated than any competitor's, and the marketing team added a warning label for the package reading: ''Do not use more than one spoonful per wash.'' Kao contrived to research Attack exhaustively without ever exposing the developing product to public scrutiny in test markets. For seven disappointing years Maruta would give test samples of Attack to geishas during his nights on the town, asking them to try it at home. Until they expressed satisfaction with the product, Maruta obsessively kept prodding his lab technicians to improve it. When Kao launched Attack last year, it grabbed 30% of the Japanese detergent market in six months. Kao is still evaluating which of its products to bring to the U.S. JAPAN'S ODD RESEARCH tactics remain controversial in the U.S. Says Thomas Roehl, a professor of international business at the University of Washington: ''Once you get your product to test market, everybody knows what you're doing. The advantage of Kao's approach is that you can hide your product until you decide to launch it, and that makes it harder to copy.'' P&G's Artzt disagrees: ''In America there are so many cultural differences in taste, climate, and attitudes that with a quick, Japanese-style rollout and no test marketing, you could get hurt badly.'' Selling a bottle of Japanese pop to an American may be as tough as selling a Chevy in Japan, and no companies know this better than Kirin and Suntory. They have been exporting beer to the U.S. since the 1970s, are smart enough not to challenge Coke and Pepsi head-on, and are not in a hurry. If Coke can thrive in Japan, where it made more money last year than in the U.S., the Japanese beverage giants figure they may someday do the same in America. Instead of trying to hustle such Japanese soda brands as Sapporo's Peach Wow or Kirin's Jive, they are oh-so-gradually introducing America to their fresh- tasting canned coffee and tea drinks, highly popular in Japan, where they are served hot or cold. Suntory is selling its canned tea, Oolong, only to Japanese restaurants and groceries in major urban markets. The cautious company is also buying up local bottled-water companies such as Pittsburgh's Polar Water to gain major market shares there and in other U.S. cities. Shiro Yasuno, president of Suntory International, explains the strategy: ''I think bottled water is the most promising industry in the U.S. Your tap water is getting worse and worse, your aquifers are polluted by toxic waste, and your government doesn't have the money to clean it up.'' The beverage companies may soon begin selling their soda in the U.S. through Japanese-style vending machines. These typically offer up to 50 choices of drinks and foods, hot as well as cold. Some even feature built-in videogames. Last spring Sanden Corp., a Japanese vending equipment supplier, bought Vendo, a soda-vending-machine manufacturer that controls 25% of the U.S. market. FAMOUS FOR THEIR high-quality, beautifully prepared food, the Japanese are already selling in the U.S. packaged foods from ham to tuna to Nissin's instant soups. Oodles of Noodles comes in a plastic pouch; the customer just adds boiling water to make a soup that Nissin claims tastes better than canned types. To ensure freshness, Nissin built two manufacturing plants in the U.S., one on each coast. The company offers just-in-time delivery, shipping many small orders to stores as needed. Lipton, which sells a similar dry soup called Cup-a-Soup, sends out big shipments to retailers every week or so. Says Mike Sakai, Nissin's senior U.S. marketing manager: ''Basically the turnover of our product is faster. We bring a fresher product to the consumer's mouth.'' Taking the Nissin threat seriously, Campbell has responded with Noodle Nest, its own instant soup. Says CEO McGovern: ''If American companies don't realize how dedicated the Japanese are to quality, then they are not going to be around long. The Japanese are going to squeeze us with better value, and the consumer knows the difference.'' Will the Japanese completely dominate U.S. consumer markets in the 21st century? Not likely. But odds are, they eventually will become major players by chipping away like a baseball team that hits singles, and some sacrifice flies, rather than home runs. Says Richard Green, a consultant at Coopers & Lybrand who works with both Japanese and American corporations: ''The Japanese build managerial competence by incremental victories and by avoiding leaps.'' Their progress may be slow, but the Japanese, who concentrate on the long term, don't seem to mind.
More from Fortune
Will Mmmhops be a hit?
NBA confirms L.A. Clippers sale to ex-Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer
FBI and SEC probe into Carl Icahn and golfer Phil Mickelson
FORTUNE 500
Current Issue
Subscribe to Fortune
More Company News
Toys 'R' Us brand may be brought back to life
JCPenney names Jill Soltau as its new CEO
S&P downgrades debt-riddled GE and GE Capital
Top Stories7 things to know before the bellSoftBank and Toyota want driverless cars to change the worldAston Martin falls 5% in its London IPOBarnes & Noble stock soars 20% as it explores a saleWhy it's time for investors to go on the defense
Contact Us
Closed Captioning
Manage Cookies+
Site Map
>
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2018
Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Â© S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018
and/or its affiliates.
© 2021
Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved.Terms
under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy.
Do Not Sell
Contact Us
Closed Captioning
Manage Cookies+
Site Map
>
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2018
Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Â© S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018
and/or its affiliates.
© 2021
Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved.Terms
under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy.
Do Not Sell