Game Institute - Certified Online Game Development Courses
Limited Time Only -- 40% Off Sale
CATALOG
REVIEWS
CERTIFICATION
LOGIN
Professional Game
Development Courses
Take advantage of the most extensive collection of online instruction, source code, assets and tools available for indie and pro game developers! You will learn C#/C++, Blender, Unreal Engine 5, Unity, OpenGL,
and many other industry standard languages, tools, and APIs.
See Our Catalog
About Us
Game Institute™ provides courses in the field of video game design and development for learners of all experience levels.
We teach the most important skills necessary for anyone interested in creating art or writing code for games. We've trained hundreds of thousands of designers and developers from all around the world since 2001, many of whom have gone on to industry jobs.
Read More
As Seen On
Industry Recognized Developer Training
Unity Authorized Training Partner
As a Unity Authorized Training Partner, Game Institute meets Unity's strict quality standards and we are able to offer Unity-authorized training workshops and preparation courses for Unity certification exams
on behalf of Unity Technologies.
Join Now
Premium Online Courses
Training Packages
Lifetime Account
Receive full and immediate lifetime access to all current and future proprietary training releases and updates.
Save 40%
$599.00
$359.40
See More
Payment Plans Available!
Dead Earth Series
Develop your own commercial quality first person shooter, step-by-step, from the ground up. 150+ hours video training.
Save 40%
$399.00
$239.40
See More
Payment Plans Available!
Projects Only
Projects, source code, and asset downloads only. Includes Dead Earth, GI Racing 1&2, MatchBaker, Balls of Glory, Carbon3d Engine.
Save 40%
$249.00
$149.40
See More
Payment Plans Available!
See All!
Game Development Series
150+ hours of step-by-step video instruction that will have you building your own triple-A first-person survival horror game. Check out the video to see some of what is included in the course.
See More
Best-in-Class Training
Enjoy hundreds of hours of step-by-step video instruction across a wide variety of subjects. Download commercial-grade game projects, source code, and assets to work with and integrate into your own games and experiences.
Self-Paced Online Learning
You can study right from home at your own pace, with no pressure. You can take whatever time that you need to work your way through the lessons until you are both comfortable and proficient with the material.
All Skill Levels Welcome
We train everyone from total beginners to working professionals, so don't hesitate to participate or feel intimidated. No prior experience is needed, and you'll be making your own custom games in no time.
Affordable Highly Effective Curriculum
We provide the absolute top level of educational content in the industry all while striving to keep things very affordable for our learners and offering training options and payment plans to fit every budget.
Commercial Quality Game Projects
When you study here, you'll make real games, not just tech demos. This way you can work on games professionally or independently.
College Level Certification Available
For learners who want to take things one step further, upgrade your experience to include a professional development certificate from one of 2500+ accredited colleges and universities.
What our students say about us...
I'm blown away by the quality of the training! The videos are very rich in term of educational content and Gary is quite a funny guy. I don't want to sound like a fanboy, but I just wanted to say thank you for such a great product!
Marc A.
I am going through the Unity tutorials and have to say that I love that you show everything in detail. It is really easy to understand when I can follow along with the videos, put theory into practice immediately,
and see a result.
Endazil R.
Dead Earth has been a wonderful video series. Very informative and exactly what I had been looking for in terms of game developer training. I completed 16 lessons in only a few days and I'm looking
forward to the next module!
Peter Q.
300k+ Students
2000+  Online Lessons
2500+ Partner Colleges
We are so confident that our training will be effective for you that we offer all new students a risk-free 30-day 100% satisfaction guarantee!
Support
Helpdesk
FAQ
Company
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Community
Testimonials
College Certification
Video Game Design & Development
Digital Game Artist Certificate
Copyright © 2024 Game Institute. All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy