::: WELCOME TO :: CaribONE.com :::
Toggle navigation
Home
Calling Cards
How to Use
Help
Rates
Long Distance
Long Distance
My Account
Quality prepaid Calling Cards.
Prepaid Long Distance Services.
The Best in Caribbean Products and Services.
Secure Online Shopping.
support@caribone.com
1-877-467-0022
Main Menu
Store Catalog
Prepaid Phone Cards
Music
Books
Story Telling
Comedy
Videos
Store Services
Directory
Events
Help
My Account
Our Products
The sounds, the food of the Caribbean
We bring the elements of the Caribbean right to your home. You will find Calypso, Merengue, Reggae, Salsa, Soca and other Caribbean music here. Artists such as Beenie Man, Spragga Benz, Elephant Man, Lexxus and others are featured. Food items from the different islands join our growing supply of Caribbean products.
Long Distance
International Long Distance Service
Loking for a better long distance service? Our service allows you to call anywhere around the world with crystal clear quality and at rates that save you a bundle. With no hidden fees and no contracts to sign you are in control. No need to change you present carrier. Manage your account online. Convenient and easy to use.
Calling Cards
Worldwide Prepaid Calling Cards
Another way to save when making calls. Our prepaid calling cards offer the best rates to the Caribbean, Africa, Middle East, Latin America, Asia, Europe and North America. Recharge and pinless dialing available. Get pins instantly online, place your call and start saving with our ultra low phone card rates now.
Quality Prepaid Long Distance Services. No pins to dial, No contracts, No hidden fees.
Crystal clear connections across the AT&T network at discounted rates.Convenient use from home, cell, office, anywhere.Manage your account and view call records online.
A better long distance service. You get crystal clear quality connections with much better international rates than the typical long distance provider. See how our rates are better now.
Conveniently use from home, office or cell Use our service from anywhere with the same low rates. Whether at home or travelling (hotel room or friend's house). You save from anywhere you call. No pin numbers to dial. No calling cards to carry.
No commitments to use our service There are no obligations or contracts to sign. No need to change your present long distance or cell phone provider. You can keep them and save with our rates.
No fees, surcharges or taxes of any kind. No gimmicks here. No hidden fees. What you see is what you get. Our rates are real.
Manage your account online anytime. Monitor usage, manage billing and recharge your balance online 24/7.
OUR RATES
Centsible Calling is a prepaid international and domestic calling service available for your cellular, home and business phones.
HOW TO USE OUR SERVICES
From your registered Home, Office or Cell phone
Dial our access number 1-313-828-3733.
Listen for your balance, then dial the number you wish to reach.
From an unregistered phone (e.g. a hotel or friend's house).
Dial our access number 1-313-828-3733.
When prompted enter your account number (which is your phone number) and security code.
Listen for your balance, then dial the number you want to reach.
Please note - toll free access rate is 2¢/min higher.
When it is best to use the local access number?
When using the service from your cell phone
or if you have an unlimited usage long distance plan with your land line carrier
or you have a VOIP provider such as your cable company or Vonage etc.
How to contact Carib One Customer Service:
Email: support@caribone.com
Phone: (1-877-467-0022)
NOTE FOR CELL PHONE USERS: DO NOT PRESS THE SEND BUTTON AFTER ENTERING YOUR DESTINATION NUMBER!
HELP
Have Any Questions?
What is Carib One's Prepaid Long Distance Service?
Carib One now offers the most convenient, affordable and flexible way to call the Caribbean and around the World. Call from your cell, home or business phone! Save up to 85% when you call anywhere in the world with our innovative dial-around service. Simply sign up to set up your phone and dial our access number, our service is instantly applied to your cellular, home and business phones. It's fast, it's easy and it saves you money.
It's like having a Prepaid Mobile, International & Long Distance Service ALL IN ONE?
Carib One offers you a value added service incomparable to others!
Use from your home phone: - Our dial around service allows you to access our network without having to change your long distance provider
Use from your cell phone: - Our service is also compatible with all cellular services so no switching cell phone service providers.
Concerned about running out of minutes? Select auto-recharge. Save money with our low rates, no contract, no maintenance fee, no connection fee or service fee. Need to add additional time quickly? Simply login through the existing customer login here to add time or manage your account 24/7! Add our access number to your speed dial for quicker calling.
Convenient - can be used from your home, cell, office or even when travelling (e.g hotel or friend's house)
No pin numbers to dial. No calling cards needed.
No need to change your present long distance or mobile service provider.
No contracts to sign or obligations of any kind.
No monthly fees, hidden fees or extra charges.
No taxes or charges on your monthly phone bill like the major carriers have.
Manage your account and view call records online 24/7.
You decide how much to spend and when. You are in control.
How to sign up and use our service
Anim pariatur cliche...
Use from your cell phone?
Click Here for instructions on HOW TO USE OUR SERVICE:
Click Here to SIGN UP NOW:
Or call our toll free number to sign up now: 1-877-467-0022
Terms & Condition | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer
Copyright 2020 All Rights Reserved
Forgot Password
Please enter your phone number below
×Close
×
×
Phone Number*
Go
×Close
×
Log In
Sign Up
Login
Enter 10 digit Phone Number*
Password*
Forgot Password
Go
Sign Up
Phone Number*
Go