Aimee Semple McPherson Biography - life, story, school, mother, information, born, marriage, time, sister
Toggle navigation
World Biography
Ma-Mo
Aimee Semple McPherson Biography
Aimee Semple Mc Pherson Biography
Born: October 9, 1890
Ingersoll, Ontario, Canada
Died: September 27, 1944
Oakland, California
Canadian-born American evangelist
Aimee Semple McPherson.
Courtesy of the
Library of Congress
.
Aimee Semple McPherson, American evangelist (one who preaches
Christianity), symbolized important traits of American popular religion in
the 1920s and 1930s. She was one of the first female evangelists, the
first divorced evangelist, and the founder of the Foursquare Gospel
church.
Early life
Aimee Kennedy was born on October 9, 1890, near Ingersoll, Ontario,
Canada. Her father, James Morgan Kennedy, was a struggling farmer. Her
mother, Mildred "Minnie" Pearce was a former member of the
Salvation Army (1865; founded by William Booth [1829–1912] as a
religious organization with military structure for the purpose of
bettering life for the poor and evangelizing the world). Soon after
Aimee's birth, her mother took her to the Salvation Army and
dedicated her to God's service. Aimee's training was
particularly geared toward religious work.
When Aimee was in high school, she began to question her religious
beliefs. At the age of seventeen she went to a religious meeting and
experienced Pentecostal (a branch of Christianity that supports
individual religious experience and evangelism) conversion under the
guidance of Scottish evangelist Robert Semple. In 1908 she married
Semple and followed him to China as a missionary (one who travels to
spread religious teachings). He died soon after arriving in China,
leaving her pregnant and penniless. After the birth of Roberta Star, she
returned home and continued her Pentecostal work. She also worked with
her mother for the Salvation Army.
Travels
Semple married a New York grocery clerk, Harold S. McPherson, in 1913;
this marriage ended in divorce five years later. Thereafter she set out
as an untrained lay evangelist to preach a Pentecostal-type of
revivalism (a religious practice focused on restoring the spirit of God
into people) to the people of Ontario, Canada.
Physically attractive and possessing a dynamic personality and the
instinctive ability to charm crowds, Aimee Semple McPherson gradually
perfected her skills. By this time professional revivalism had achieved
a distinctive style and organization; McPherson was in the forefront.
Though she initially lived an almost
hand-to-mouth existence, following the route of traveling evangelists
from Maine to Florida, success meant a move to larger cities in America,
England, and Australia. In the cities audiences were often immense, with
ten thousand to fifteen thousand people deliriously applauding her.
"Speaking in tongues" and successful efforts at faith
healing—both practiced by Pentecostal churches—were a part
of her ministry. (Pentecostals believe that the sounds made by people
while "speaking in tongues" are biblical messages that can
be interpreted by another worshipper.)
Her own temple
By 1920 McPherson was permanently established in Los Angeles,
California. In 1923 she and her followers dedicated Angelus Temple. She
called her new breed of Christian church the Foursquare Gospel, a
complete gospel for body, soul, spirit, and eternity. Seating over five
thousand people, this served as her center of activity. Backed by a
sharp business manager (her mother), McPherson developed a large group
of devoted followers. She also became a community figure in tune with
the publicity-oriented life of Los Angeles, the film capital of the
world.
A popular evangelist, McPherson thrived on publicity and sensationalism
(causing an intense and/or unnatural emotional reaction). The most
astounding incident occurred in 1926, when McPherson, believed to have
drowned in the Pacific Ocean, "miraculously" reappeared in
the Mexican desert. Some challenged her tale of kidnapping and
mistreatment, claiming she had been in hiding with one of her male
followers. The resulting court battle attracted national attention.
McPherson continued her unconventional ways by engaging in a slander
suit (when a person is taken to court for telling lies that damaged
another's reputation) with her daughter, publicly quarreling with
her mother, and carrying on well-publicized vendettas (intense and
lengthy fights) with other religious groups. Aimee Semple McPherson died
of a sleeping pill overdose in Oakland, California, on September 27,
1944. The Foursquare Gospel church continues to thrive in America today.
For More Information
Austin, Alvyn.
Aimee Semple McPherson.
Don Mills, ON: Fitzhenry and Whiteside, 1980.
Bahr, Robert.
Least of All Saints: The Story of Aimee Semple McPherson.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1979.
Blumhofer, Edith L.
Aimee Semple McPherson: Everybody's Sister.
Grand Rapids, MI: W. B. Eerdmans, 1993.
Epstein, Daniel Mark.
Sister Aimee: The Life of Aimee Semple McPherson.
New York: Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, 1993.
Thomas, Lately.
Storming Heaven: The Lives and Turmoils of Minnie Kennedy and Aimee
Semple McPherson.
New York: Morrow, 1970.
User Contributions:
1 LIBNY PINEDA⚠It is an interesting story showing the victories and the weaknesses of a famous evangelist. We can learn from her as to have dedication for the work we have in hands no matter the type. People with charisma and physical attraction have to be careful with what the do especially when they decide to go into God's ministry. Holiness and moral clarity should be their main distinction of their lives.
Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:
Name:
E-mail:
Show my email publicly
Public Comment: (50-4000 characters)
✍ Send comment
Aimee Semple McPherson Biography forum
McMillan, Terry
Mead, Margaret
Copyright 2008 The Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.  •  Terms & Privacy  •   Website © 2025 Advameg, Inc.