Behavioral Problems - Dogs
Behavioral Problems - Dogs
Behavioral problems often
cause an owner to feel they must give up their pet. Problems can range
from submissive urination to dangerous aggression, from destructiveness
to disobedience, from too active and playful to ignoring you completely.
Identifying exactly what is the cause of the problem is sometimes half
the battle.  For instance, destructiveness is usually caused by boredom.
Rule #1: A tired dog
is usually a good dog, make sure your dog gets enough exercise.
Getting your dog neutered
will affect all behaviors stemming from the sex drive, almost always for
the better. This includes some dominance aggression and inappropriate marking
(lifting his leg). If the dog is an older dog, and the behaviors have become
habitual, the effect of neutering might not be as strong. It will also
take longer for the effects to be seen in an older dog, sometimes many
weeks. But, unless your dog is a choice breeding specimen (and he probably
isn't or else you wouldn't be considering finding him a new home), please
get your dog neutered. It will prolong his life too.
Spay
and Neuter Information
One of the first things you
must do is to have your pet checked out by your vet. Be frank with your
vet about the behavior problems, they can stem from pain, a breed tendency,
or even hormone levels that are off. Give your pet the benefit of the doubt
that the problem can stem from a physical cause, for instance many a urinary
infection has caused housebreaking problems, especially if the animal was
housebroken before. In the meantime, do work on trying to correct the problem
behaviorally, let them know what is and is not acceptable behavior.
If your dog is aggressive,
and has bitten or you think he/she might bite, please see a trainer or
behaviorist. A behaviorist is one who specializes in training beyond basic
manners. Again, be very frank with this person. Many, many, most, ALMOST
all dogs can be helped with proper training. The hardest part is actually
training the humans.
Some aggressive animals cannot
be saved, and it is often better to euthanize these animals than to pass
along the problem and danger to someone else. Please work up the courage
to take him to your vet for this, so he/she can go out with someone he/she
loves, instead of a cold shelter, with a rescue worker who's heart has
to break many times a day over these animals. Read Shelters
vs Euthanasia. But, please be very sure it's warranted, try everything
else first, get second opinions too.
The pages below contain links
on different behavioral areas and problem, but be aware that there is a
lot of overlapping (such as aggression, fear, and dominance). So, be sure
to check out other areas too.
General Training and Behavior Info
Aggression
Dominance
Destructive
Behavior
Housebreaking
Helping the Abused
Dog
Fear and Separation
Anxiety
Dogs and Kids (and
Adults too)
Getting Along with
Other Animals
Puppy Stuff
Trainers and Behaviorists
Miscellaneous Behaviors
Copyright©1998-2007 wonderpuppy.net The border graphic and background are from the painting "Copper", and is copyright©2005 by
Joan Berry. Used with permission.
Individual submissions are the property of their respective authors.
Can We Help Main Page
Dog Behavior Problems
Cat Behavior Problems
Housetraining Dogs
Housetraining Cats
Crate Training
Moving and Travel
Noise and Barking
No Time
Getting Along with Other Animals
Kids and Other People
Shedding and Grooming
Allergies to the Pet
Puppy Stuff
Finding a New Home
©1998 - 2007 Leilah's
Laughs