Jean Jacques'
468 Bedford Road, Pleasantville, NY 10570  -
914.747.8191
(Café-Pâtisserie-Bakery)
914.747.8197
(Catering & Party Room)
HOME
|
ABOUT
|
CONTACT
or Order online on
Café
Bakery
Our Party Room
Catering
Home
About Us
Café
Bakery
Our Party Room
Catering
Contact
Order online on
Cafe all day menu
Thanksgiving A La Carte Menu
Thanksgiving Complete Dinner Menu
Come and enjoy our new terrace
Welcome to Jean-Jacques, as of recent, you can also order online on
Enjoy the most delicious breakfast in Jean-Jacques
You are most welcomed to our Party Room
Enjoy very special moments in our Party Room
Our Menus
Café All Day Menu
Sunday Brunch Menu
Complete Dinners for One or More
Custom Box Lunches
Easter à la Carte
Holiday Menu
Easter Complete Dinner
Holiday Menu
Passover à la Carte
Holiday Menu
Passover Complete Dinner
Holiday Menu
CAFÉ ALL DAY MENU
Dine in | Dine out | Takeout
BREAKFAST ANY TIME !
Croque Madame
2 Eggs, Bacon, Ham or Sausage, American or Swiss Cheese on Croissant
7.75
Croissant Florentine
Spinach, Feta and Parmesan Cheese
7.75
Bagel
with Norwegian Smoked Salmon, Cream Cheese and Onion
13.75
Quiche
Lorraine | Spinach and Mushroom | Zucchini, Tomato and Fresh Basil
8.50 | slice
Old Fashioned Oatmeal
Raisins and Honey | Add Walnuts +1.50
5.25
Load More
A taste of Paris in Pleasantville
Bistro with Pastry Shop & Private Party Room🥂Home & Office Catering 🏆Award-winning Eats🍽 Cakes🍰 & Pastries🥐
Café
We bring the quintessential taste of Paris to Westchester.
First time customer? Bienvenue! At Jean-Jacques’ you’ll be transported to a family-friendly Paris Cafe and Pastry Shop.  Sip on a glass of wine or cappuccino....
Bakery
Known for its classic French desserts,
Our Bakery/Pâtisserie, known for its classic French desserts, offers an extensive selection of Signature Cakes, Pastries, Tartes, Croissants, Pains au Chocolat, Brioches, French Macarons, Cookies and Mini Dessert Bites - all made in-house daily..
Our Party Room
Featuring an elegant Provence design
Our Private Party Room captures a European feel much like a Parisian Tea Room.  It accommodates events of up to 60 guests.
Catering
Committed to providing our clients with impeccable service
Our highly skilled professional catering team of event managers, chefs, maitre D's, captains, servers, and bartenders coordinate and direct all aspects of event planning
Bite Into Happiness:
Subscribe Today
Subscribe
“I ordered from Jean Jacques' for a bridal shower brunch at our family home. everything was so fresh and delicious. my personal favorites were all the croissants and the quiches. plan your party there today. you won’t be disappointed!”
Gio Poccia
"We had a wonderful birthday celebration for my wife Trish! Everything was beautifully organized by Donna and her two assistants another Donna and Maritsa. From helping me select the delicious menu, to the reception of guests, to the serving of the food and the timing of the event as it unfolded - everything was just right!"
"The set up of the room was really attractive and welcoming, there was a generous amount of food - more than enough for everyone, everything was delicious but I especially recommend the quiches! And the service was excellent - highly recommended!~"
Colin McPhillamy
“Delicious, cozy, understated local gem. It is more than a typical cafe. I had the braised short ribs; they melted in my mouth! An excellent meal-- half the price and better than an appetizer just a few doors down. This neighborhood spot has a friendly staff-- Sofia & Lauren had great recommendations. With good eats, affordable prices and sweet vibe, I'll be back. I was pleasantly surprised by how good the food was. So glad to find Jean-Jacques.”
Jessica Sullivan
“One of my favorite breakfast spots - I love eating outside! Excellent French toast!
Today, they really outdid themselves & made one of my favorite birthday cakes I have ever had in my 38 years!
Buche de Noel in cake style, instead of log!
It was incredible- the smooth, rich chocolate layers are delightful.”
Brian Granoff
“Had my younger daughter’s college graduation party at Jean-Jacques' Culinary Creations….what an absolutely fantastic event! From the incredible food to the beautiful atmosphere to the amazing staff (Donna/Jack)…we were treated like royalty and felt blessed to have the party there. BIG shout out to the whole team at J-J. THANK YOU for making the day so special!”
Laurence Gottlieb
Get news and special offers
Subscribe
Contact us
468 Bedford Road, Pleasantville, NY 10570
914.747.8191  Café-Pâtisserie-Bakery
914.747.8197  Catering & Party Room
or Order online on
Hours
Monday - Sunday:
7:00am - 8:00pm