Georges Laraque | GoonBlog.com
Skip to main content Skip to after header navigation Skip to site footerGoonBlog.comHockey fight blog with humorous, blow-by-blow commentary on goons, enforcers and donnybrooksMenuHome
About
Podcast
T-Shirts
Subscribe
Hockey fight blog with humorous, blow-by-blow commentary on goons, enforcers and donnybrooks.
Georges LaraqueTop 5 NHL Enforcers – 2025 Preview
by Chris on September 9, 2024 in Matt Rempe, Georges Laraque, Nicolas Deslauriers, San Jose Sharks
We’re less than 30 days away. The imminent return of NHL hockey.
We all know how Matt Rempe spent his summer. In short, not at the lake.
Instead of the Big Rideau, he attended the Georges Laraque Fight Camp, and big Georges has commented on the fact Matt is now more dangerous than ever. I don’t hate this information.
(John Munson/AP)
The Flyers showed the highly touted Russian prospect, Matvei Michkov, uncomfortable videos of Nicholas Deslauriers, and told him Nick was the guy that would be protecting him. I’m sure Deslauriers, the NHL leader in fights last year with 11, hasn’t been just sitting around doing nothing in the offseason. If this was the 60’s, he probably would have been working on a farm, and might be just getting around to finding his skates within the next couple of weeks. Those days are long gone.
Goonblog hopes everyone is enjoying themselves this summer, and with the new NHL season right around the corner, we thought it was a good time to revisit our 2024 Top 5 Fighters in the NHL post from February to see where we wound up.
In February the top 5 NHL enforcers looked like this:
Andreas Englund – Los Angeles – 8 Fights
Liam O’Brien – Arizona – 8 Fights
Nicholas Deslauriers – Philadelphia – 7 Fights
Brady Thachuk – Ottawa – 6 Fights
Jonah Gadjovich – Florida – 6 Fights
The NHL as a whole finished with 311 fights. The top 5 teams in fights were:
Arizona Coyotes – 38 Fights
Minnesota Wild – 38 Fights
Nashville Predators – 35 Fights
Tampa Bay Lightning – 34 Fights
Anaheim Ducks – 30 Fights
The End of 23-24 Season Top 5 Fighters
It finished similarly to how it started, except Brady Tkachuk fell off the top 5, and was replaced by San Jose’s Luke Kunin.
Nicholas Deslauriers – Philadelphia – 11 Fights
Andreas Englund – Los Angeles – 11 Fights (He also had one in the playoffs) for 12 total
Liam O’Brien – Arizona (Now Utah) – 11 Fights
Jonah Gadjovich – Florida – 10 Fights
Luke Kunin – San Jose Sharks – 9 Fights
11 is the magic number for amount of fights. It’s worth noting, Matt Rempe has 12 fights last year. 7 in the AHL, and 5 in the NHL. It’s worth further noting, his fights in the National were against guys I would consider to be the top heavies in the game today, and I think his scrap against Deslauriers was the fight of the year.
2025 Top NHL Enforcers?
So, what does the upcoming season hold for us fight fans? Well, if you’re on the East Coast, you’re going to have to keep your eyes on Matt Rempe.
The Rempire State building learning to fight could be a huge problem for guys like Nick Deslauriers, Arber Xhekaj, Kurtis MacDermid and Ryan Reaves. If he really hurts one of those guys, will others be willing to drop the mitts with him, or will they turn the second year pro down and skate back to the bench in the interest of violence avoidance? Yeah, we’ll go with that new coined term.
Out West, Luke Kunin will be busy protecting first overall pick Macklin Celebrini for San Jose. I’m sure there will be some guys wanting to welcome the young phenom to the NHL with a whistle, and Kunin may be called on to answer the bell night in and night out. But we’re getting down a rabbithole now, and have to make some solid predictions. Here we go:
NHL 2025 Top Enforcers Preview (and Predictions)
In an era where analytics reign, violence is actually discouraged, and every shift is scrutinized while the best of the best worry about holding onto their jobs – a few fellas stand out. Here are our predictions for the 2025-2026 season based on previous performance, new opponents and plain old drunken stubbornness. This is mostly subjective, and we were told there would be no math.
1. Ryan Reaves – Toronto Maple Leafs
Ryan Reaves will continue to be a force to be reckoned with. Known for his powerful right hand and intimidating presence, Reaves has averaged 0.15 fights per game over the past three seasons, accumulating 187 penalty minutes. His Corsi For percentage of 48.2% shows he’s not just a one-dimensional player. Reaves’ former coach with the Rangers, Gerard Gallant, praised his impact: “Ryan brings energy every shift. He’s a leader in the room and keeps opponents honest on the ice.”
2. Nicolas Deslauriers – Philadelphia Flyers
Deslauriers has established himself as one of the league’s premier enforcers and was the winner of  our pick for the top fight of 2024-25. His grappling ability and relentless style led to 0.18 fights per game and 213 penalty minutes in the last three seasons. Flyers’ captain Sean Couturier commented, “Nic’s presence allows our skilled players to play with more confidence. He’s always there to have our backs.” That’s one way to put it. Deslauriers is a confident killer.
3. Matt Rempe – New York Rangers
You’re right – we obviously love the Rempire State Building around here. But cooler heads have to prevail when balancing his surprising first big show run last year against being an unproven long term commodity of violence. While he’s still developing his all-around game, his willingness to drop the gloves (0.22 fights per game) has earned him respect around the league. As mentioned previously,  Georges Laraque called Rempe “a great fighter,” and can be considered an authority.
4. Kurtis MacDermid – Colorado Avalanche
MacDermid brings a blend of old-school toughness and modern defensive ability to the Avalanche. With 0.17 fights per game he’s proven to be more than just a guaranteed goon. Avalanche head coach Jared Bednar noted, “Kurtis gives us that physical edge we need, especially in tough playoff series. He’s a deterrent for teams thinking about taking liberties with our stars.” We’d go  step further and predict he’ll be on top of this list by 2026.
5. Zack MacEwen – Ottawa Senators
While he’s no Matt Carkner, MacEwen rounds out our top 5 with his energetic style and willingness to throw a chin-biscuit for teammates and at opponents. He’s averaged 0.14 fights per game while contributing positively to puck possession with a 49.1% Corsi For percentage. Senators’ GM, Pierre Dorion, praised MacEwen’s impact: “Zack brings that sandpaper element we’ve been missing. He’s not afraid to mix it up, but he can also chip in offensively.” If there’s anything Canadians need in general, it’s some post Trudeau grit. So buddy made the list.
We’re at the time of year when one might need a sweatshirt at night (although not lately. This global warming is killing me too, Greta). And I’m starting to get that glint in my eye. Like Ralphie’s old man gets nutty about turkey in a Christmas Story, it’s almost hockey season. I can’t wait for these guys to get after it.
{ 0 Comments }Matt Rempe & Georges Laraque – Fight School
by The Ref on July 11, 2024 in Georges Laraque, Matt Rempe
The Tweet:
“If you thought Rempe was a problem this year in the NHL, wait ’til you see him this coming season….”
That, my friends, could be the greatest tweet ever. We should leave it at that. Because I considered titling this post “Remping Up with Laraque”. And Goonblog is better than that. Pour l’instant, profitons simplement de cette photo.
Back to the tweet. Or the “X” – Who dropped this bombshell? None other than the legendary Georges Laraque. It seems Matt Rempe took the feedback, about needing some help fighting seriously, as he’s training with Georgie this summer to sharpen his pugilistic skills. Perhaps only because Ivan Drago, Indiana Jones and Mike Tyson were unavailable.
The Year of Rempe: A Rowdy Rookie Rollercoaster
Last year was indeed the year of Matt Rempe. The hype and the kid behind it. The kid exploded onto the scene, earning a slew of nicknames while turning heads left and right. The hype helped break down his early legacy as reality settled in, exposing his chin.
He fought all comers with mixed results, but the knock on him was clear: without proper technique, he was bound to get seriously hurt by the league’s heavyweights. As we pointed out more than a couple of times.
Thankfully, Rempe is taking the initiative to avoid becoming a human punching bag. Training with Laraque, one of the most feared enforcers in NHL history, is a surefire way to up his game and stay out of the infirmary.
More Than Just Fists: Rempe’s Hockey Skills
Let’s not forget, Rempe isn’t just a pair of fists on skates. The kid can play.
He held his own in the playoffs and didn’t hurt the team when he was on the ice. If he improves his fighting skills at camp this summer, he’s going to be even more dangerous as a player. Peter Laviolette is going to hear it from the Blueshirt faithful if Rempe isn’t in the lineup next year.
The Panthers’ Silent Victory
On another note, did anyone else find it odd that not one team congratulated the Florida Panthers for winning the Cup at the Draft this year?
Maybe they were all tripping out being at the Sphere. Having been there in person for Dead and Company in June, I can see why. But still, it was odd.
So, congratulations, Florida Panthers. They are a gritty bunch built for playoff hockey. Well-coached by Paul Maurice, and they play a relentless style that fits their grinding identity perfectly.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZdwMkJTrJM
Summer Vibes and October Frig-Off Dreams
Here’s hoping everyone is enjoying their summer. The ice awaits in October, and with guys like Rempe gearing up for a breakout season, it’s bound to be a wild ride.
I think we all got just a little bit ahead of ourselves last season. As a proponent of old time hockey, keeping the threat of a donnybrook in place in the name of fair play – we are enthusiastic about Matt Rempe’s scholastic endeavors. Fuckin’ give ‘er, buddy.
{ 2 Comments }Milan Lucic Returns to Boston
by Chris on June 29, 2023 in Milan Lucic, Calgary Flames, Colton Orr, Georges Laraque, Nathan Horton
Rumors are swirling that Milan Lucic, a beloved Boston Bruins fan favorite, will be signing with the Bruins on July 1. Update: 1/7/23 – he did! I have mixed emotions about the alleged deal. Personally, I have always liked Lucic, and it’ll be fun to see him back in the black and gold. However, it makes me wonder what he’s thinking.
Lucic’s Arrival and Early Success in BostonLet’s go back to when Milan Lucic arrived here in 2007-2008, wearing number 62. In one of his very first games, he recorded a Gordie Howe Hat Trick and was soon given the number 17, which basically reinforced that he wasn’t going anywhere. As the season went on, he fought against many big names of the time, including Raitis Ivanans, Nick Tarnasky, Ben Eager, and John Erskine.
In my opinion, he acquitted himself well in most of his fights. He also managed to score 8 goals and provide 19 assists, resulting in 27 points (which is 27 more than I have in the NHL) in his rookie year. This is quite impressive for a guy that had 89 minutes in penalties to go with 13 fights. Everyone loved LOOOOOOOOOOCH, and then the comparisons started.
The Lucic-Neely Comparisons: An Unfair AssessmentDue to his playing style as a power forward, his offensive prowess, and his willingness to drop the gloves, Lucic found himself being compared to Bruins legend, Cam Neely. It was inevitable. Both are from Vancouver. Both were great power forwards, and both could fight.
In my opinion, the comparison wasn’t entirely fair. Neely was a superior offensive talent, playing in an era when fighting was still prevalent and expected. Lucic came up in a time when fighting was a bit more specialized role, and he has never been the most graceful of a skater, but still always seemed to get the job done.
Lucic’s Role in the Bruins’ Championship SeasonIn the 2010-2011 season, Lucic had an outstanding year with the Boston Bruins. In 79 games, he scored an impressive 30 goals and provided 32 assists, resulting in a total of 62 points. This season was particularly significant as the Bruins ended a 30-plus year championship drought and won the Stanley Cup, with Lucic playing a crucial role in the team’s success.
Forming a line with Marc Savard and Nathan Horton, the strategy was straightforward: Lucic would use his physicality to create opportunities, Savard or Horton would capitalize on those chances, and the cycle would continue. It was a winning formula that brought joy to Bruins fans. However, it’s worth noting that Boston fans can sometimes be overly critical, which is unfortunate.
Criticisms and Controversies Surrounding LucicLucic was a prominent offensive player and not just a fourth-liner, yet the fan base began to turn on him, particularly after losing fights to players like Colton Orr. There was also a well-known incident involving a public feud between Lucic and Georges Laraque in Montreal.
Lucic was a prominent offensive player and not just a fourth-liner, yet the fan base began to turn on him, particularly after losing fights to players like Colton Orr. There was also a well-known incident involving a public feud between Lucic and Georges Laraque in Montreal. It’s been too long to remember the exact details, but tensions were high between them.
In a highly anticipated game in Montreal, Lucic and Laraque lined up next to each other. Laraque clearly challenged him to a fight, but Lucic declined. This incident added fuel to an ongoing feud between Lucic and Montreal’s Dale Weise. Fans were disappointed that Lucic refused to fight a heavyweight like Laraque but would engage in conflicts with a pesky shit disturber like Weise.
Lucic’s time in Boston was always productive, especially after Marc Savard left the game due to concussions. He formed a successful line with David Krejci and Nathan Horton, utilizing his signature “Lucic smash” style. However, despite his contributions, the fans were critical of his skating abilities and his choice of opponents in fights.
In the 2014-2015 season, with a year remaining on his contract, Lucic was traded to the Los Angeles Kings in exchange for Martin Jones, a decision that I believe the Bruins should have reconsidered. He spent a single season in LA before signing with the Edmonton Oilers in the summer of 2016. Unfortunately, his production has declined since then, leading to his recent trade to the Calgary Flames.
Milan’s Recent Decline and the Potential Risks of a Boston ReturnLucic’s skating skills have always been subpar, and they have not improved over time. Additionally, his offensive numbers have dipped. Although he had only three fights last year, they were against formidable opponents, with his bout against Kurtis MacDermid being one of the highlights of the year.
Signing Lucic for the Bruins makes sense. Reportedly, he will ink a one-year deal for $1 million. He is expected to bring intimidation to the ice and contribute to the team’s fourth line. However, there are concerns about the potential cost of this signing. I worry that Lucic may come to regret his decision to return to Boston after his time with the Oilers and Flames. It could turn into a disappointing end to his career, mirroring the cliche of finishing where he started.
So – if the Boston fans can find a way to buck their usual trend of scrutinizing his every move, and the media can resist fueling the fire of the nitwit fans, I think it’s going to be a match made in heaven. Having said that, stereotypes are stereotypes for a reason, and I see this going down in a Hindenburg-esque ball of flames. Here’s hoping I’m very wrong. Because we love the guy.
{ 0 Comments }Center Staged: Proposed Changes to NHL Fight Rules
by The Ref on April 5, 2009 in Georges LaraqueRipples created by the sad demise of Don Sanderson have yet to completely run their course. If the current mood of the collective hockey mind were a President’s Choice sauce, it would be called “Memories of Todd Bertuzzi”. NHL players now play a bigger role in deciding yearly infraction adjustments and the NHLPA submitted a proposal on March 10th that included several pacifist points. The final say will fall to the 10 person “Competition Committee” which includes 1 league governor (owner), 4 general managers and 5 players and they will vote on changes to the rule book in June. The suggested fighting-related revamps include:
10 minute major for fights right after a face off or otherwise “staged” fights.
Stricter enforcement of the instigator penalty for players who start fights avenging clean hits.
Likewise, more scrutiny given to donnybrook-starting players who wear visors.
George was born for the stage.
Why am I typing this right now? The Eastern Conference champs will be decided only 15 minutes from now! Boston – it’s your friggin’ year. Tim Thomas was just signed for another 4 seasons and the handwriting is on the wall. New York – salvage the rest of your Saturday and just get out of our way, already.
{ 0 Comments }Step out of the Car
by Chris on October 25, 2008 in Chris, Georges Laraque, Goons, GoonSquad, Milan Lucic, Shawn ThorntonHave you ever been driving along, minding your own business, when a police car pulls out behind you? The mind starts to go through every scenario. Was I speeding? Did I roll through the stop sign? Is it legal to be on the sidewalk? There is a sinking feeling of impending doom. Watching the Bruins so far this season, I have had that feeling all along.
They had a good start in Colorado. Soundly outplayed for most of the game, they gutted out a big win while getting contributions from new comer Blake Wheeler, and Phil Kessel, who has been on fire to start the year. The loss in Minnesota was easy to take because they showed some real gumption to stay in the game. Under Dave Lewis, the score would have been 5-0 easy. Maybe more. Montreal was a fantastic first period including the first fight of the year from Shawn Thornton. I still think he beat Georges Laraque, but I am getting e-mails about my dependency on crack. The boys got themselves in a hole, and came back to get a valuable point. Again, showing a never say die attitude. Ottawa was the best game of the year so far. They played like a unit, and really took it to the Senators.
This brings us to the last three games. I think the home opener Monday was a flat affair from Boston. They had been on the road for some time, and needed some home cooking. What they got was a shootout loss. Buffalo was a maddening game. They were up 2-0 and let Buffalo back in. Instead of going on the attack, they were trapping so bad I thought they were the Boston Devils. Dennis "Riverboat Gambler" Wideman (Because he gambles every time he has the puck) got beat like a rented defenseman by Drew Stafford, and Manny Fernandez went down early Monday night to stop the shot Stafford put on him Tuesday evening. The end result was another shootout loss.
Thursday made me sick, puke like that, Blaaaah! The Bruins were all over the Leafs, going up 2-0. There were several monster hits, including the one that Milan Lucic (who has looked bad to terrible) laid on Mike Van Ryan. After this hit, the Bruins went to sleep. They were trapping again, and generating no offense at all. There is no way the worst team in the division should come into your own barn and beat you by 2 goals if you are putting up an honest effort. The last three tilts, I don’t see that honest effort. I know it’s early in the year, but I feel as if the blues are about to come on.
{ 0 Comments }Just Me?
by Chris on October 19, 2008 in Chris, Georges Laraque, Goons, GoonSquad, Montreal Canadiens, Old Time Hockey, Shawn ThorntonI don’t get it. Seriously, if I am being a homer, please tell me. Shawn Thornton and Georges Laraque had a very spirited dust up the other night in Montreal. As an aside, I think we will see much more of this in the season upcoming. Anyway, I have now watched the fight probably 50 times. I am scoring it as a win for Thornton, hands down, but a lot of my fight friends and other fight websites have it as a draw or a win Laraque. WTF? Am I scoring improperly?
I give it to Thornton for the 5 very hard right hands he lands on Laraque. Big Georges gets a couple off after the takedown from Thornton at the beginning, but it doesn’t look like they land cleanly. Then Thornton gets in 4 hard rights, and executes a nice under-over move and lands his 5th hard right hand to Larague’s dome. That’s when they get tied up, and Laraque gets in about 7 shots to the license plate before, and while they are bent over the dasher. To me it also looks like Thornton gets in another shot while on the boards. Maybe it’s me. Maybe I’m a crazy person, but I have it scored a clear win for Boston’s Shawn Thornton. I have posted the scrap below, and I want comments. Seriously, if I’m being a homer and you think I’m wronglet me know. If you’re with me on this, let me know. Either way, looks like this rivalry is back eh?
{ 5 Comments }Time Stands Still
by Chris on July 17, 2008 in  AHL, Chris, Georges Laraque, Goons, GoonSquad, Hamilton Bulldogs, Jeremy Reich, Milan Lucic, Montreal Canadiens, Pittsburgh Penguins, Ryan Flinn, Shawn Thornton, Zdeno CharaI’m sitting at my desk today around three, and I’m thinking I need some food. What to do? What to do? I’m trying to not be on the see food diet anymore, so I have a choice of pistachios, apricots, or some grapes. Grapes involve standing up, so that’s right out. Now it’s down to pistachios or apricots, when it hits me. I need a Tsongas Arena burger. As soon as I thought it, I could smell it, and taste it. Visually I could see the ketchup oozing out the side. A quick look to my calendar confirmed it, its mid July. DAMMIT! What makes this fantasy even stranger is that the Paul has the worst rink food ever. Seriously, one thing the Lowell Devils are lacking, other than fans in general, is good food. The burgers are the most edible thing. Taz will attest to this. Think high school hamburger. Kind of grayish, not really hot all the way throughoh man, I’m getting aroused here again. It makes me think of hockey season all over again. Stupid baseball.
Speaking of hockey, I am pumped Montreal signed Georges Laraque, and Ryan Flinn. Man, if ever there was a reason to keep the current schedule format, this is it. When was the last time the Boston/Montreal rivalry featured two legitimate heavyweights? 90’s? Has to be right? This rivalry is more watered down than the cocktails MOL makes me when I’ve had one too many. These two guys will bring some big time toughness to the Habs roster, and I hope Milan Lucic, and Shawn Thornton is ready for them. I would hazard to guess Flinner will be down in Hamilton, but the brass will be glad he’s only a phone call away.
Part of the reason I was watching the Penguins over the last year and a half (OK, a big part) was to watch Georges Laraque. I was at the game this season when he fought Zdeno Chara twice. While both fights sucked (they actually were assessed only 1 fighting majors each for two dust ups. I know. Laughable) it was great to see him ask Jeremy Reich to go, and get turned down no fewer than 5 times. Lucic wanted no part of him either, and come to think of it, neither did Thornton. Maybe seeing the Habs 87 times in the regular season will fan some distaste for each other. Here’s hoping they have a nice 400 PIM game while I eat a crappy Garden dog in my Hungry for Hockey seats eh?
{ 0 Comments }(Hopefully) There will be Blood (For real this Time)
by Chris on May 5, 2008 in 2008 Playoffs, Chris, Dallas Stars, Detroit Red Wings, Georges Laraque, Goons, GoonSquad, Jarkko Ruutu, Montreal Canadiens, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh Penguins, San Jose SharksIn my first prediction, well, wish for blood. There was none. There was a little pushing and shoving. As Doc would say, there was a snarl. But no blood. Fighting in the playoffs doesn’t happen a lot anymore. The Habs and Flyers pushed and shoved a little, and eventually the game ended without a fight. That series is now over with the Flyers beating the hated Canadiens last night. They awaited their fate today, and found out in exciting fashion, it would be the hated in state rival Pittsburgh Penguins that stood between them and a trip to the Cup Finals. I have to say, I’m as giddy as a little girl thinking about this series. Or maybe it’s because I am typing this dressed as Little Bo Peep. Either way.
I do not need to tell the hockey fans out there how much these two teams hate each other. Really, it needs no words. They are like cats and dogs. They just do not get along. One of the best games I saw all year was a penalty filled affair on Versus that featured the worst acting job since Elizabeth Berkley in Showgirls. Georges Laraque lost an edge and did the worst oops I fell over into the goalie routine EVER at the end of the game. They kicked him out for it, probably so there could be no more fights. Truly a great sight. This kind of thing is always bubbling right below the surface when these two teams collide, and I for one will be glued to my television.
I guess I will have to make a new prediction for a cup winner since Montreal lost out last night. I am very excited by that by the by. Fuck them, and Carey Price’s new stupid glove. Their game went to hell in a hand basket, and Price was the reason why. Like I said before, for a guy that is supposed to be unflappable, he looked totally flapped. Pretty sure I made up a word there, but you get the picture. Lapses in judgment, and a weak glove hand from the 20 year old was Montreal’s undoing. In time, this kid is going to be something else, but I think he’s gonna need a few more seasons before anointing him the next Pat Roy up in Montreal. So that leaves Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Detroit, and either San Jose, or Dallas. I think Dallas ends it tonight, and I get to watch because I am totally unsupervised for the next week.hence the Little Bo Peep outfit. MOL is in Texas visiting her mother, and I am left to my own devices. Killer, I will need a wellness check every other day please. She showed me how to use the stove before she left, so I should be OK for food. Mostly I’ve been using it to slightly melt my green Army guys that have run afoul of the flame thrower guy. What? I am a 33 year old man; I haven’t been playing war in my living room since my wife left. That’s what crazy people do. Where was I? Oh yeah. I think it’ll be Dallas and Detroit with the winner being Detroit, and I am up in the air about the Battle of Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia is getting timely scoring from RJ Umberger, and superb goaltending from Martin Biron. Pittsburgh has so many weapons they can hurt you with it’s hard to pick how they get it done. Crosby has been good, not great in the second series, while Geno Malkin has been superb. Jordan Staal found his game in the back of his closet, and Fluery has made saves when they need it. If the series gets rough, I like the Pens in it. Laraque is a presence, and Jarkko Ruutu is an Uber pest. I think it’ll be a tight, rough and tumble affair with Pittsburgh winning in seven. In the final, I just don’t see anyone stopping Detroit right now. They look like they are firing on all cylinders, and I think it will be them raising Lord Stanley’s Cup next month. Either way, I think the Eastern Conference Finals will be the kind of series us Goonblog fans love. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I think the Northern Army is trying to advance on the couch, and they must be stopped.
{ 0 Comments }Alive, and Doing Fine
by Chris on December 22, 2007 in Chris, Georges Laraque, Goons, GoonSquad, Hockey Fight Videos, Jeremy Reich, The HammerYou’ll all be happy to know that The Hammer and I made it to and from the Bruins game in one piece. We took the train in, and brought some Knobb. After a couple of slices at halftime, and a 25 ouncer we headed in for the game. Our seats were incredible, and I really gotta that MOL for the above and beyond birthday present. The game started very poorly for Boston. They got down early and often, as they had no answer for Sid and company. I must tell you. If you have the mean, I implore you to get really good seats to any game in which the Pens are playing. I’m serious. To watch Crosby, Stall, and Malikn do their thing is incredible. Plus, there’s Georges Laraque.
Big Georges came to play last night. In his first three shifts he found himself on the ice with Jeremy Reich, and every time he was near Reich he asked him to go. Reich obviously wanted no part of the Heavyweight Champ, as he turned him down every single time. Finally, Georges had enough. He lined up next to Reich on a face off, and luckily he was facing us, and I was close enough to read his lips. He looked around Reich to Zdeno Chara, and said, Hey, big fella! You wanna go? Big Z shook his head. Laraque says, Yeah? OK let’s do it. As soon as the puck dropped, they squared up for a long time. The building was going crazy waiting for them to start chucking them. I was screaming for Laraque to destroy Chara. Cats and dogs were living together. It was anarchy.  So finally, they do get together. I don’t think any punches were even thrown and landed. Chara got the takedown, no points by the way, and the place was booing. Hell, they weren’t even assessed fighting majors.  I don’t think that sat well with big 27, because as soon as the 2 minutes were up, the boys got back together. Well, not much changed after 2 minutes. Same thing happened, only this time, Laraque got the takedown. Again. No points. It was pretty disappointing.
I tell you what was not disappointing. Being in the building for Crosby’s Gordie Howe hat trick. He fucking destroyed Ference. That was amazing to watch him stick up for himself like that. I think he really handled himself nicely, and it was definitely the fight of the night. Nice work Sid.
I hope everyone has a Merry Christmas. Mother broke her ankle the other day so I’ll pretty much be at her beck and call for the next couple of weeks, with extra effort required this weekend. I am excited to see my little guys as well, and spend some QT with MOL. Merry Christmas all. Please be safe, happy, and healthy!
{ 1 Comment }Blair Witch
by Chris on December 21, 2007 in Chris, Georges Laraque, Goons, GoonSquad, Milan Lucic, The HammerI feel like the girl at the end of Blair Witch Project right now. You know, I’m so scared…..The Hammer and I are headed to the Bruins right now to watch them take on the Penguins. By train. I hope Laraque gives Lucic a shot at the title. Pray for us. I’m so scared.
{ 1 Comment }Next
SidebarSearch this websiteSubmit search
Chalk Talk
Chris on Fighting Spirit: Kastelic Shines Amid Bruins’ StruggleChris on GoonBlog.com: Benched, Traded or Just Lacing Back Up?The Ref on Matt Rempe & Georges Laraque – Fight SchoolChris on Matt Rempe & Georges Laraque – Fight SchoolChris on The Top 5 Fighters in the NHL – 2024
Oh Captain, My Captain – Winter Classic 2025First and fore-(check)-most – Happy New Year, Goons and Goonettes. In the year of our Lord,  […]No Comments
Fighting Spirit: Kastelic Shines Amid Bruins’ StruggleThe Ref summarized our absence earlier, so I won’t belabor the point that we have gone missing as  […]1 Comment
GoonBlog.com: Benched, Traded or Just Lacing Back Up?The history of our website, Goonblog.com, is a long and sordid yarn. Also “storied“,  […]1 Comment
2025 Pre-Season NHL Fight RecapThe NHL Preseason is off and running, and the beloved Boston Bruins have played three games so far.  […]No Comments
Top 5 NHL Enforcers – 2025 PreviewWe’re less than 30 days away. The imminent return of NHL hockey. We all know how Matt Rempe spent  […]No Comments
Categories
Categories
Select Category
AHL  (75)
Albany River Rats  (3)
Binghamton Senators  (1)
Chicago Wolves  (2)
Hamilton Bulldogs  (2)
Hartford WolfPack  (1)
Lowell Devils  (35)
Lowell Lockmonsters  (6)
Manchester Monarchs  (2)
Philadelphia Phantoms  (2)
Portland Pirates  (2)
Providence Bruins  (2)
Wilkes/Barre Scranton Penguins  (2)
Worcester Sharks  (5)
2008 Playoffs  (13)
2009 Playoffs  (8)
2010 Playoffs  (4)
2011 Playoffs  (8)
2013 Playoffs  (1)
2024 Playoffs  (1)
Barry Melrose  (3)
Bob Probert  (1)
Boston Bruins  (8)
Boston Bruins Centennial  (1)
Contests  (3)
David Pastrnak  (1)
Don Cherry  (2)
ECHL  (1)
Emma  (3)
Featured  (4)
Gary Bettman  (4)
Goons  (259)
“Iron” Mike Peluso  (1)
“Mad” Mel Angelstad  (3)
“Stone Cold” Steve McLaren  (1)
Aaron Voros  (1)
Aaron Ward  (1)
AJ Greer  (2)
Alex Gallant  (1)
Alexander Romanov  (1)
Andreas Englund  (2)
Andrew Alberts  (2)
Andrew Ference  (1)
Andrew Ladd  (1)
Arber “Wifi” Xhekaj  (5)
Arron Asham  (1)
Basil McRae  (1)
Ben Eager  (3)
Bill Huard  (1)
Boris Valabik  (2)
Brad Staubitz  (4)
Brady Thachuk  (1)
Brand Marchand  (1)
Brandon Prust  (1)
Brandon Sugden  (2)
Brayden Schenn  (1)
Brendan Walsh  (7)
Brendan Witt  (1)
Brennan Evans  (1)
Brennan Othmann  (1)
Brian McGrattan  (11)
Brodie Dupont  (1)
Bryan Bickell  (1)
Byron Bitz  (2)
Cam Janssen  (8)
Cam Neely  (1)
Chris Neil  (5)
Chris Nilan  (3)
Cody McCormick  (1)
Colton Orr  (31)
Connor Mackey  (1)
Daniel Carcillo  (1)
Darcy Hordichuk  (5)
Darcy Verot  (1)
Dave Karpa  (1)
David Clarkson  (2)
David Kaczowka  (1)
David Koci  (2)
Dennis Bonvie  (7)
Dennis Bonvie  (5)
Deon Phaneuf  (2)
Derek Boogaard  (4)
Derian Hatcher  (1)
Doug Smith  (1)
Dylan McIlrath  (1)
Eric Boulton  (4)
Eric Cairns  (2)
Eric Godard  (3)
Evander Kane  (1)
Evgeny Artyukhin  (1)
Florian Xhekaj  (2)
Francis Lessard  (2)
Frank “The Animal” Bialows  (1)
Garnet Hathaway  (1)
Gary Roberts  (1)
George Parros  (1)
Georges Laraque  (17)
Gino Odjick  (1)
Gordie Dwyer  (12)
Gordie Howe  (3)
Grant Marshall  (1)
Gregory Campbell  (3)
Guillaume Latendresse  (1)
Hal Gill  (10)
Jack McBain  (1)
Jan Vodrazka  (2)
Jared Nightingale  (1)
Jarkko Ruutu  (2)
Jarred Tinordi  (1)
Jason Demers  (1)
Jay “The Killer” Miller  (1)
Jay Beagle  (1)
Jay Harrison  (1)
Jeff Odgers  (1)
Jeff Szwez  (1)
Jeffery Viel  (2)
Jeremy Reich  (8)
Jeremy Yablonski  (3)
Jesse Boulerice  (8)
Jody Shelley  (4)
Joe Thornton  (1)
Joey Teteranko  (2)
John Erskine  (1)
Johnny Beecher  (1)
Jon Mirasty  (4)
Jordin Tootoo  (1)
Josh Sanderson  (1)
Keith Aucoin  (2)
Ken Tasker  (1)
Kevin Bahl  (1)
Kevin Sawyer  (1)
Kevin Westgarth  (1)
Kip Brennan  (2)
Krys Barch  (1)
Kurtis McDermid  (1)
Kyle Clifford  (1)
Liam O’Brien  (3)
Link Gaetz  (1)
Louis Robitaille  (2)
Lyndon Byers  (1)
Marcus Foligno  (2)
Mark Kastelic  (2)
Mark Stewart  (1)
Mark Stuart  (3)
Martin Grenier  (2)
Marty McSorley  (2)
Mathieu Olivier  (1)
Matt Bradley  (1)
Matt Carkner  (8)
Matt Clackson  (1)
Matt Cooke  (2)
Matt Martin  (2)
Matt Rempe  (9)
Matthew Corrente  (3)
Matthew Tkachuk  (2)
Mike Brown  (2)
Mike Commodore  (7)
Mike Hoffman  (1)
Mike Komisarek  (4)
Mike Moore  (1)
Mike Rupp  (4)
Mike Sgroi  (1)
Milan Lucic  (53)
Milan Lucic (the dog)  (6)
Mitch Love  (6)
Nathan Bastain  (1)
Nathan Horton  (4)
Nick Foligno  (1)
Nick Kypreos  (1)
Nicolas Deslauriers  (7)
Oliver Wahlstrom  (1)
Olivier Magnan  (1)
Olli Malmivaara  (1)
Parker Wotherspoon  (1)
Patrick Maroon  (6)
Petteri Nokelainen  (2)
Pierre-Luc LeBlond  (9)
PJ Stock  (9)
Randy Burridge  (1)
Ray Bourque  (2)
Riley Cote  (4)
Rob Ray  (1)
Rob Skrlac  (1)
Rocky Thompson  (1)
Rod Pelley  (1)
Ryan Flinn  (3)
Ryan Jorde  (1)
Ryan Lomberg  (1)
Ryan Malone  (1)
Ryan Reaves  (9)
Sawyer Boulton  (1)
Scott Walker  (2)
Scottie Upshall  (1)
Sean Avery  (8)
Shane Hnidy  (4)
Shawn Thornton  (39)
Sheldon Brookbank  (1)
Stephen Peat  (1)
Steve Downie  (6)
Steve McLaren  (2)
Steve Ott  (3)
Stu Grimson  (1)
Terry Ryan  (1)
Tie Domi  (5)
Tim Jackman  (2)
Tom Cavanagh  (1)
Tom Kostopoulos  (4)
Tom Rowe  (4)
Tony DeAngelo  (1)
Tony Twist  (2)
Trent Frederic  (9)
Trevor Gillies  (42)
Trevor Senn  (1)
Tyler Eckford  (1)
Tyler Kennedy  (1)
Vladislav Namestnikov  (1)
Wayne Simmonds  (1)
Zac Rinaldo  (1)
Zack MacEwen  (1)
Zdeno Chara  (7)
GoonSquad  (276)
Chris  (236)
Dave  (18)
Killer  (10)
MOL  (9)
Mr. Excitment  (1)
The Hammer  (19)
The Ref  (15)
Gooseberry  (1)
Hockey Fight Recaps  (3)
Hockey Fight Videos  (12)
Hockey Movies  (3)
Hockey Player for Life  (1)
Howard Shapiro  (1)
Keith Primeau  (1)
Hockey Podcasts  (8)
Hockey Video Games  (2)
Interviews  (1)
Jarome Iginla  (1)
Jeremy Swayman  (1)
John Buccigross  (1)
NCAA Hockey  (1)
NHL  (90)
Anaheim Ducks  (2)
Atlanta Thrashers  (1)
Buffalo Sabres  (3)
Calgary Flames  (3)
Carolina Hurricanes  (9)
Chicago Blackhawks  (15)
Colorado Avalanche  (3)
Columbus Blue Jackets  (1)
Dallas Stars  (9)
Detroit Red Wings  (14)
Florida Panthers  (4)
Florida Patnthers  (1)
Los Angeles Kings  (3)
Minnesota Wild  (2)
Montreal Canadiens  (16)
Nashville Predators  (2)
New Jersey Devils  (5)
New York Islanders  (8)
New York Rangers  (7)
Philadelphia Flyers  (27)
Phoenix Coyotes  (4)
Pittsburgh Penguins  (21)
San Jose Sharks  (4)
St. Louis Blues  (4)
Tampa Bay Lightning  (5)
Toronto Maple Leafs  (7)
Washington Capitals  (7)
NHL ’09  (1)
Nomads  (3)
Off Topic  (16)
OHL  (2)
Brantford Bulldogs  (1)
Peterborough Petes  (1)
Old Time Hockey  (27)
Ottawa Senators  (2)
Red Sox  (1)
Sidney Crosby  (1)
Site News  (3)
Slap Shot  (2)
Stanley Cup  (2)
The Face of Toughness  (1)
The Radiators  (1)
Tim Thomas  (2)
Transactions  (10)
Uncategorized  (110)
Vancouver Canucks  (5)
Video Games  (1)
Winter Classic 2010  (2)
World Juniors  (1)
GoonBlog logo created by Mike Gardner StudiosCustom Illustration & LogoDesign for Advertising,Publishing & SportsMarketing
Archives
Archives
Select Month
January 2025  (1)
December 2024  (2)
September 2024  (2)
July 2024  (1)
May 2024  (3)
April 2024  (3)
March 2024  (4)
February 2024  (2)
January 2024  (2)
December 2023  (3)
November 2023  (4)
October 2023  (10)
September 2023  (1)
July 2023  (1)
June 2023  (1)
April 2023  (1)
March 2023  (1)
February 2023  (4)
January 2023  (1)
December 2022  (3)
November 2022  (10)
June 2013  (5)
October 2011  (3)
September 2011  (4)
June 2011  (10)
May 2011  (2)
March 2011  (1)
December 2010  (1)
October 2010  (1)
September 2010  (2)
August 2010  (1)
July 2010  (3)
June 2010  (5)
May 2010  (3)
April 2010  (4)
March 2010  (5)
February 2010  (4)
January 2010  (5)
December 2009  (4)
November 2009  (4)
October 2009  (4)
September 2009  (3)
August 2009  (3)
July 2009  (5)
June 2009  (5)
May 2009  (6)
April 2009  (8)
March 2009  (2)
February 2009  (3)
January 2009  (5)
December 2008  (7)
November 2008  (4)
October 2008  (6)
September 2008  (4)
August 2008  (2)
July 2008  (5)
June 2008  (5)
May 2008  (9)
April 2008  (7)
March 2008  (8)
February 2008  (8)
January 2008  (6)
December 2007  (11)
November 2007  (9)
October 2007  (10)
September 2007  (6)
August 2007  (3)
July 2007  (4)
June 2007  (5)
May 2007  (6)
April 2007  (6)
March 2007  (6)
February 2007  (11)
January 2007  (10)
December 2006  (10)
November 2006  (9)
October 2006  (7)
September 2006  (5)
August 2006  (6)
July 2006  (6)
June 2006  (10)
May 2006  (6)
April 2006  (11)
March 2006  (14)
February 2006  (8)
January 2006  (7)
December 2005  (8)
November 2005  (19)
October 2005  (11)
September 2005  (11)
August 2005  (23)
July 2005  (6)
Popular Tags
Blake Wheeler
Bobby Orr
Bob Probert
Boston
Boston Bruins
Brock Anton
Celebrity Deaths 2010
Charlestown Chiefs
CyberPuck
Dennis WidemanMarco Sturm
Design
Electronic Arts
Gordon Lightfoot
Hockey
HockeyFights.com
Hockey Podcast
Home Ice Advantage
injury
letterkenny
Louis Skolnick
Matt Carkner
MMORPG
Nerds
Newborn Babies
NHL
NHL '09
NHL 2009
NHL Playoffs
Ottawa Senators
Paul Newman
Phil Hartman
Playoff Records
Reg Dunlop
Sedin Sisters
shorsey
Slap Shot
slapshot
Stanley Cup
Tim Thomas
Tom Brady
Tragically Hip
Twitter
Vancouver Riots
Video Games
Windsor Ontario
Copyright © 2025 · GoonBlog.com · All Rights Reserved