Cele|bitchy | Jason Bateman: booze & blow were like ketchup & french fries
Open top menuAdvertise
Writers
Contact
HomeCelebrities
Royals
Shop
Podcast
Links
Archives
Jason Bateman: booze & blow were like ketchup & french fries
July 09, 2009
By Kaiser
Drugs, Drunk, Jason Bateman
There are few people I love more than Jason Bateman.  My love for him grew like a beautiful, delicate flower through the three years of Arrested Development, and my DVD collection of that show has sustained my love for Jason/Michael Bluth for years to come.  Whenever I see him I give a little sigh of adoration.  It’s not just his looks – though he is a cutie – but his dry, droll delivery and impeccable comedic timing.  If I ever see that monstrous-looking Jennifer Aniston romantic-comedy The Baster, it will only be because of Jason Bateman.
Anyhoodle, Jason is the cover boy for the August issue of Details.  Though Jason is normally my beautiful, delicate flower, he’s looking a little rough on the cover.  Still pretty, but like he was rode hard and put away wet, as we say in the South.  The interview is just as rough – Jason is talking about his early years in Hollywood (the era was Teen Wolf Too, I believe) when he was definitely a party boy.  Jason is such a creature of the eighties that he references those years as “like Risky Business”.  Or, as we say in the South, “like Risky Bidniss”:
In a new interview with Details, actor Jason Bateman reveals that his rampant drug and alcohol use almost cost him his marriage.  Bateman, now 40, rose to fame as a child actor on Silver Spoons and The Hogan Family. Wild partying soon followed.
“It was like Risky Business for 10 years,” he says of the nineties. “My parents were out of town, they left me a bunch of money, the car, and the house, and I didn’t know when they were coming home. I’d worked so hard that by the time I was 20, I wanted to play hard. And I did that really well.”
“I was never at a place where rehab would have been appropriate,” he says of his drug use. “Booze was what would make me want to stay out all night and do some blow or smoke a joint or whatever, so shutting that off was key. It’s like ketchup and French fries—I don’t want one without the other.”
He went on to wed actress Amanda Anka, whom he’d known since he was 18. But his partying didn’t stop.
After coming home late one night, his wife finally gave him an ultimatum: Quit partying.
But he didn’t entirely stop. Things got so bad that she even took a planned holiday in Mexico without him. It was then, alone on a rainy Christmas morning, that he decided to go to an AA meeting.
Looking back, Bateman tells Details, “Do you want to continue being great at being in your twenties, or do you want to step up and graduate into adulthood?”
He and his wife welcomed their first daughter, Francesca, in October 2006.
Jennifer Aniston – Bateman’s costar in the upcoming comedy The Baster (out next spring) – met him 15 years ago on a group ski trip to Aspen. She said she is proud at how far he’s come.
“He should be here, he’s meant to be here, and for whatever reason, it’s taken until now,” she says. “There’s no bull**** with him. Even though he was pretty wild in those days, something about those dimples and that sweet face made you go, ‘Oh, it’s okay that you just drove up the street backwards in a Range Rover with the door wide open.’ I don’t know what was happening there. You feel instantly safe in his company.”
[From US Weekly]
Oh, get off his jock, Aniston.  Coke habits are not cute.  But still, I’m glad he cleaned up his act and his looks and career weren’t ravaged in the long haul.  Speaking of the long haul, Arrested Development fans are going to have sit tight for a little while longer.  According to reports from June, the script for the AD film isn’t even finished yet, and several of the major cast members haven’t even confirmed if they want to be a part of an AD film.  Michael Cera finally sounds like he’s coming around, but now it looks like Jeffrey Tambor might be holding out!  But what about Nellie?
Jason Bateman is shown with his daughter, Francesca, two and a half and  wife of eight years, Amanda Anka, on 5/13/09 in New York. He is also shown with Amanda at the premiere of The Hangover on 6/2/09. Credit: WENN.com. Details cover via CoverAwards.
« Previous Post
Next Post »
By Kaiser
Drugs, Drunk, Jason Bateman
Featured Links
- Behind the scenes secrets and Easter eggs  from Agatha All Along [Buzzfeed]
- Garcelle Beauvais leaves RHOBH [Just Jared]
- Why Jon Bernthal turned down Daredevil: Born Again [Pajiba]
- Britt Lower in Loewe [RCFA]
- Unilever is censoring Ben and Jerry’s [Jezebel]
- Jaime King is going through it [E! Online]
- Who won The Bachelor [Hollywood Life]
- Benny Blanco once tried to set up Selena Gomez [People]
You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
12 Responses to “Jason Bateman: booze & blow were like ketchup & french fries”
Comments are Closed
We close comments on older posts to fight comment spam.
Bob Lawblaw says:
July 9, 2009 at 9:18 am
Nellie? or Polly? I always get those two confused.
I wine and dine ’em, but I don’t let them tell me what to do! I DON’T let them tell me what to do.
You know– I’m not sure how an AD movie would work.
Would it be pg13 with the bleeps, which if you ask me makes the cursing that much funnier, or R uncensored?
I’m just not sure.
p.s. I was watching the episode Motherboy XXX at about 3am, and holy mother of pearl Fox, why did you cancel the best un-animated show you’ve ever known, why?
ash says:
July 9, 2009 at 9:56 am
That little girl is adorable.
Kaiser says:
July 9, 2009 at 10:39 am
Bob – I totally agree, why cancel the best-written comedy in decades?
Oh, and I think the movie would be R-rated.  I want to hear Gob say naughty things.
lola says:
July 9, 2009 at 10:43 am
I have a hard time picturing him as a party boy, but I’m glad that’s all over for him.  I recently discovered Arrested Development on Netflix, he was great in it.  The show too.
Em says:
July 9, 2009 at 11:11 am
Love him, love AD and his little girl is adorable.
Perplexed says:
July 9, 2009 at 11:38 am
“Bidness”? Excuse me? I’ve never heard “business” pronounced that way in the South. Ever. Is the writer surrounded by people with constantly stuffy noses?
mae says:
July 9, 2009 at 11:48 am
thank you, perplexed. is it now a prerequisite for writing on this site that you include “charming” allusions to your nationality/place of birth?
hmm says:
July 9, 2009 at 3:09 pm
Bateman will get the same pass that RDJ gets for his wild past because it’s only certain women in Hollywood who get marked for their less than savory pasts.
Patrice says:
July 13, 2009 at 4:16 pm
Yeah, I agree. There is definetly something immistakable sexy about Mr. Bateman. I still don’t understand the whole obsessiion some people have with that horror of a show that was ‘Arrested Development’, but I just watched ‘Juno’ for the first time last week and fell in love (at least at the beginning of the film anyway, by the end you want to kill the guy he plays!).And that kid of his, could she be any cuter : ) Looks just like her Dad! I loved the holiday Gap ads he did with her last year. So sweet.
random celebrity says:
February 26, 2010 at 11:11 pm
Nice post, I have been following your blog for the last couple days and just wanted to say great job!
John Daly says:
June 5, 2010 at 4:48 pm
His acting career is really getting back on track, I’m really happy that he’s showing people in addiction that falling into a bad hole doesn’t mean the end. You can crawl your way out and back to the top and he’s showing that, getting sober is the first step to a beautiful life and in his case a very successful career.
samantha says:
March 27, 2011 at 4:01 pm
Bateman sucks. He can’t act. He’s like Dave Arquette, surfing on his sister’s tampon. How is he getting work? He must be on his knees in casting offices across H’wood. Go blow, Joe.
Advertisements
Hot Posts
Carter: Meghan came between siblings
Did Paltrow mock Meghan on IG?
William wants to work less
Bezos's wedding scheduled for summer
Mail: Waleses are happier now
Pete Davidson’s dating history
Godfather of Harlem S4 casting news
Review of ‘The Parenting’ on Max
Trailer for Duster with Josh Holloway
Michelle Monaghan in a bomb coat
Uzo Aduba is power dressing
Nick Cannon isn’t done having kids
Celebrities who are known to be rude
Home
Comment Policy
Privacy, Data Protection & Cookie Policy
Legal Disclaimer
Copyright © 2006 - 2024, Celebitchy, LLC