Greatest Films of 1938
Filmsite: written by Tim Dirks
Search for:
Go
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
GREATEST FILMS
Greatest Films: Overview
100 Greatest Films
101-200 Greatest Films
201-300 Greatest Films
200 Greatest Films - By Decade
300 Greatest Films - By Decade
Greatest Films - By Year
Top 100 Box Office of All-Time
Top Films of All-Time
Greatest Film Series-Franchises
Greatest Films - Criteria
Most Influential Films
Greatest American Movies - AFI
Other Lists of Great Films
REVIEWS
Film Reviews: Overview
All Film Reviews
Greatest Film Reviews - By Decade
Film Reviews - Most Popular
Film Reviews - Moments & Scenes
Film Terms - Glossary
Film Viewing - Tips
Movie Trivia Quizzes
Film References
THE BEST
"Greatest" and "Best" Collections
Best
Genre-Type Films
Bond Films - Best to Worst
'Chick Flicks'
Guy Movies
Three Great Horror Franchises
Sexiest Films of All-Time
Greatest War Films
Greatest Westerns
Greatest Zombie Films
Top Film Franchises-Series
Movie Title Screens
Plot Twists, Spoilers, Surprise Endings
Best Film Speeches & Monologues
James Bond Films
Great Bond Girls
Film Noir - Greatest Femmes Fatales
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 States: Most Authentic Films
Greatest Movie Props of All-Time
Robots in Film
HISTORY
Film History: Overview
Film History - By Decade
Film History Milestones - By Year
Great Films - By Year
Box Office Greats
Top 100 Blockbusters
Top 100 Films of All-Time
Top Box-Office Hits - By Decade/Year
Top Summer Blockbusters of All-Time
Biggest Box Office Bombs & Flops
Sex in Cinema - Comprehensive History
Most Controversial Films
Visual & Special Effects Milestones
Movie Title Screens: Film Franchises
Greatest Movie Props in Film History
Great Christmas Movies
GENRES
Main Film Genres
Action
Adventure
Comedy
Crime-Gangster
Drama
Epics-Historical
Horror
Musicals-Dance
Science Fiction
War
Westerns
Film Sub-Genres
Biopics
Chick Flicks
Courtroom Dramas
Detective-Mystery
Disaster
Fantasy
Film Noir
Guy Films
Melodramas
Road Films
Romance
Sports
Super-Heroes
Supernatural
Thrillers-Suspense
Zombies
Other Major Film Categories
Animated
British-UK
Children/Family
Classic
Cult
Documentary
Serial
Sexual-Erotic
Silent
Sub-Genres Types (and Hybrids)
Best Picture Genre Biases
Summary of Top Films by Genre
Top 100 Films By Genre Type
100 Greatest Cult Films
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 Best Sci-Fi Films of All-Time
AFI's Top 10 Film Genres
All-Time Highest-Grossing by Genre
SCENES
Scenes: Overview
Scenes: Compilations
Greatest Scenes: Collections
Greatest Chases
Greatest Crowds
Greatest Deaths
Greatest Disasters
Greatest Entrances
Funniest Scenes
Scariest Scenes
Sexual - Erotic Scenes
Film Kisses of All-Time
Greatest Music: Song & Dance
Greatest Tearjerkers
What's a Great Film Scene?
Scenes Mini-Quiz
100s of the Greatest Film Scenes
100 Greatest Film Scenes
100 Most Iconic Film Scenes
100 + Scariest Movie Images of All-Time
100 Great Movie Moments (Ebert)
50 Greatest Moments (TV Guide)
Sex in Cinema - Scenes
OSCARS
Academy Awards: Overview
Academy Awards: By Decade and Year
Top Award Winners: Summary
Best Picture
Best Picture: Movie Title Screens
Best Picture - Milestones
Best Picture - Genre Biases
Best Director
Best Actor
Best Actress
Best Supporting Actor
Best Supporting Actress
Best Screenplay/Writer
Mistakes and Omissions
Snubbed by Oscar
Worst Oscar Awards
QUOTES
Great Quotes: Overview
Top 100 Greatest Film Quotes
Great Film Quotes: By Decade
50 Great Movie Quotes
Most Popular Movie Quotes
Top 10 Most Famous Quotes
Top 10 Best Lines Ever
Top 10 Comedy Movie Lines
Top 10 Worst Quotes
Quotes: Speeches & Monologues
Greatest Film Misquotes
Great Opening Film Lines
Great Last Film Lines
Funniest Movie Quotes
Greatest Brief Film Quotes
Film Taglines
DIRECTORS & STARS
Directors/Stars: Overview
50 Greatest Actors/Actresses
Greatest Stars: Roles & Films
Greatest Film Characters of All-Time
Greatest Film Star Legends
Sexy Hollywood Bombshells
Greatest Film Directors
More Great Directors
Film Director Cameos
Stanley Kubrick's Greatest Films
Alfred Hitchcock's Greatest Films
Hitchcock's Film Cameos
Hitchcock's MacGuffins
Greatest Films of the 1930s
Greatest Films of the 1930s
1930 | 1931 | 1932 | 1933 | 1934 | 1935 | 1936 | 1937 | 1938 | 1939
1938
Movie Title Screens: 1938 | Academy
Awards: 1938 | Film History Milestones:
1938
Title Screen
Film Genre(s), Title, Year, (Country),
Length, Director, Description
The Adventures of Robin Hood
(1938), 106 minutes, D: Michael Curtiz, William Keighley
Director Michael Curtiz' swashbuckler/adventure film was one of Hollywood's
best - featuring star Errol Flynn in one of his most famous
roles (following Captain Blood (1935)). There were many remakes
of the 'Robin Hood' saga - almost too numerous to mention - but mostly
inferior. The most notable earlier example was the silent Robin
Hood (1922) with Douglas Fairbanks, Sr. This was
the most expensive Warner Bros. film to date at $2 million, but it
turned out to be the studio's biggest money-maker in 1939. It was
the second of eight films to pair Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland.
It was filmed in beautiful Technicolor on a set with colorful pageantry
and costumes, dashing sword fighting, music by Oscar-winning Erich
Wolfgang Korngold, lively characters, sparkling dialogue, and exciting
action contained to  mostly two sets - Sherwood Forest and  Nottingham
(the castle and town). The title character
was the legendary and infamous hero of Sherwood Forest, Robin Hood
(Errol Flynn) (originally Saxon  Sir Robin of Locksley).
At the time, it was announced that King Richard the Lion-Hearted
(Ian Hunter) had been imprisoned in Austria during his return from
the Crusades in the Holy Land in the late 12th century. His treacherous
Norman brother - evil Prince John (Claude Rains) and his ruthless
henchman Sir Guy of Gisbourne (Basil Rathbone), plus support from
the High Sheriff of Nottingham (Melville Cooper), attempted to take
over England and brutally oppress the Saxon masses during King Richard's
absence by heavily taxing them (and obtaining King Richard's ransom
for themselves).  Early in the film,
the impudent Robin confronted Prince John and the Normans during
a banquet at the castle and denounced him for treason in usurping
the throne, but then fled and escaped when he was declared an outlaw
and faced with execution if apprehended. Robin assumed the role of
a rebellious outlaw leader of a guerrilla band (known as "Merrymen"),
to confront Prince John and the Norman lords oppressing the Saxon
commoners - to take from the rich while aiding the poor. Robin's
recruited band of men to oppose the tyranny included Will Scarlett
(Patric Knowles), Little John (Alan Hale) (when they met on a footbridge
and engaged in a quarterstaff competition), and a fat Friar Tuck
(Eugene Pallette). During Robin's ambush of Gisbourne's small army
caravan with tax money, Lady Marian Fitzswalter (Olivia de Havilland),
aka Maid Marian (who rode on Roy Rogers' future horse Trigger) was
greeted when Robin appeared in the trees, swung down on a vine, and
said to her: "Welcome
to Sherwood, my lady!" She became
enamoured of the dashing, heroic outlaw, and the two engaged in a
secret and daring romance together. Other great sequences included
an archery contest in Nottingham, Robin's rescue from a public hanging,
and Robin and Marian's night-time window rendezvous when they confessed
their love to each other. The film's swashbuckling climax
was a lethal, exciting and vigorous sword-fighting duel between
Robin and Sir Guy inside Nottingham Castle on a winding stone staircase,
the return of King Richard and his men (disguised as monks wearing
hooded cowls) and his reinstatement on the throne, while Prince John
and the other traitors were banished for life. The conclusion brought
the King's order and consent for Robin, now a Baron, to wed Lady
Marian, to which Robin happily agreed: ("May I obey all your
commands with equal pleasure, Sire!").
Alexander's Ragtime Band (1938), 105 minutes,
D: Henry King
Director Henry King's nostalgic and lavish 20th Century Fox musical
drama (the Academy Award winner for Best Musical Score) -  was
an enjoyable backstage show-biz musical  and romance set
in the days of vaudeville on Broadway (from 1915-1938). This
film included 28 Irving Berlin songs, such as "Remember," "Blue
Skies," "Easter Parade," "When
That Midnight Choo-Choo Leaves for Alabam'," "Everybody's
Doin' It,"  "A Pretty Girl Is Like a Melody," "My
Walking Stick,"
"Heat Wave," and "Now It Can Be Told" (nominated for
Best Song). The fictionalized film followed the career of Alexander/Roger
Grant (Tyrone Power), a classical violinist who preferred playing popular
ragtime music. In the mid 1910s, he disowned his high-society San Francisco
Nob Hill family's wishes, formed a small combo band, and during one
audition at "Dirty Eddie's" - a Barbary Coast saloon, he paired up
with his songwriter-composer and pianist Charlie Dwyer (Don Ameche),
and young contralto singer Stella Kirby (Alice Fay, Fox's studio queen)
who sang "Alexander's Ragtime Band." The patrons and owner reacted positively and Roger's
band and Stella were hired - she also dubbed Roger "Alexander"
- and the band was named after the song. There
were ups and downs in the relationship between the quarreling Roger
and Stella, as he intermittently fought for her love over a period
of about 25 years, while also contending for Stella's attention with
his romantic rival Charlie. A love triangle developed
between the three as they became more popular and opened at the Cliff
House. Singer Davey Lane (Jack Haley) joined
the group. By the end of WWI, Stella had moved on and become a great star on
Broadway, and Roger became depressed over her marriage to Charlie.
When ragtime began to weaken in popularity, Roger created a new
band and added powerful vocalist Jerry Allen (Ethel Merman) as
his new discovery, taking the band first to Greenwich Village,
and then to new heights and performances in Paris, and ultimately a
gala swing concert  at Carnegie Hall. There, in the film's
curtain closing ending, Roger and Stella (who had earlier divorced
from Charlie) were romantically reunited onstage and sang "Alexander's
Ragtime Band" together.
Algiers (1938), 95 minutes, D: John Cromwell
This romantic drama, a story of intrigue and romance, was a shot-for-shot
remake of the original film Pépé le
Moko (1937, Fr.) with Jean Gabin,  an inspiration for Casablanca
(1942), and also motivated the making of Universal-International's
musical remake Casbah (1948). [Note: Chuck Jones' and Warners'
animated cartoon character  "Pepe
le Pew" was based on the "Pepe
le Moko" character. "Come, let me take you to the Casbah," however,
was never spoken in this film. In the cartoon The Cats Bah
(1954), Pepe le Pew stated the line: "Come with me to the
Casbah," reinforcing the idea that the line was spoken by Boyer
in the film.]  Crafty international jewel thief Pepe Le Moko (Oscar-nominated
Charles Boyer, in his most famous role) fled to the notorious, mazelike
Casbah district in French Algiers (a safe hiding zone or native quarter
in the modern city of Algiers with dark twisting alleyways). His
goal in self-imposed exile was to escape from pursuing North African
police, led by Inspector Slimane (Joseph Calleia), who knew he couldn't
be apprehended there: ("To arrest him in the Casbah,
distinguished colleague, would be simple. To get him out, would
be impossible"). Pepe described his plight: "I'm caught
here, like a bear in a hole. Dogs barking, hunters all around,
no way out of it." Parisian Commissioner Janvier (Paul Harvey)
had been pursuing Pepe for two years after he escaped from France,
but knew Pepe couldn't be arrested if he remained in the Casbah.
Pepe was living in the household of Grandpere (Alan Hale), while
his men kept surveillance for him, including dimwitted Carlos (Stanley
Fields), young Pierrot (Johnny Downs), dapper Max (Charles D. Brown),
and Gil (Ben Hall). To help police due to his jealousy of Pepe,
Fat Regis (Gene Lockhart) slipped a note to the police to inform
them of Pepe's whereabouts. Then, he hinted a warning to Pepe's
Algiers' mistress Ines (Sigrid Gurie) about an impending arrest.
In the attack on Grandpere's house, Pepe was wounded but escaped.
During the chaos in the Casbah, beautiful, bejewelled, sultry Parisian
tourist Gabrielle "Gaby" (Hedy Lamarr in her American film debut),
who was vacationing with her wealthy businessman fiancée
Giraux (Robert Grieg), was caught in the gunfire. Gaby happened
to meet Pepe who immediately fell into a doomed romance with the
femme fatale. There were a few romantic love scenes between fugitive
jewel thief Pepe le Moko  and the beautifully seductive
adventuress Gaby in the Casbah, with  a few embraces, a dance,
a kiss, and lots of give-and-take dialogue of intriguing affection
about Pepe's love of Paris - a symbol of his longing for freedom:
(Pepe: "You're all silk and you jingle when you walk and with all that chichi
you make me think of the subway. Isn't that funny?").
He also took a fetishistic interest in her glittering jewelry. In
the film's conclusion, Gaby was used to tempt Pepe out of the Casbah.
He foolishly left town to see Gaby on her steamship about to sail
to France, and was arrested before being able to speak to her,
after seeing her through one of the ship's salon windows. As he
was being taken away, the handcuffed Pepe asked to wait until the
ship sailed away, but then spotted Gaby on the deck. He vainly
called out to her, broke away from the authorities, and began running
toward her on the dock, where he was fatally shot in the back by
one of Slimane's men - a detective (Gino Corrado). As Pepe died
in Slimane's arms, Slimane apologized for the shooting, because
it looked like he was going to escape. Pepe replied: "And so I
have, my friend."
Angels With Dirty Faces (1938), 97
minutes, D: Michael Curtiz
Director Michael Curtiz'  and Warner Bros' superb, fast-paced crime
melodrama, a financial box-office hit in 1938, starred three greats
- Cagney, O'Brien, and Bogart. Later due to its success, there was
a sequel: Angels Wash Their Faces (1939). Two slum kids from Brooklyn grew up
together - William "Rocky"
Sullivan (Frankie Burke as youth) and Jerry Connelly (William
Tracey as youth). They  followed very different paths in their later
lives as a result of an event in 1920 when they were youths. The
two were caught by police stealing fountain pens from a railroad
freight car. Although Jerry escaped, Rocky was snagged and sentenced
to attend reform school. As adults, one
became courageous, inner-city Catholic parish priest Father Jerry
Connelly (Pat O'Brien as adult) in their same neighborhood, while
the other became big-time, hardened gangster/convict Rocky Sullivan
(Oscar-nominated James Cagney as adult). Over fifteen years later,
conflict arose between the two when the pugnacious ex-con Rocky (after
serving three years in prison for armed robbery) returned to the
neighborhood and was soon being idolized by a group of tough and
troubled slum punks (the future 'Dead End Kids') who were being counseled
and overseen by the priest. Rocky seemed to settle down during a
romance with childhood friend Laury Ferguson (Ann Sheridan), a parish
social worker who rented him a room in her boarding house, but was
still engaged in a life of crime with gang boss Mac Keefer (George
Bancroft) and Keefer's business partner - snarling, crooked, double-crossing
gangster lawyer James Frazier (Humphrey Bogart). The daring exploits
of Rocky caused the Dead End Kids to idolize him and worship him
as a role-model hero, causing Father Jerry immense concern for their
emulation of Rocky's criminalized way-of-life, and disregard for
the church's wholesome programs. Father Jerry was forced to engage
in a campaign against the corruptive criminal element (in general)
and its damaging effect on the community, and in particular as a
means to condemn his boyhood friend. As the film was concluding, Keefer and Frazier plotted to
murder Father Jerry, but Rocky intervened and gunned down both of
his local rivals before fleeing to an abandoned warehouse where he
also shot and killed an police officer. As a result, Rocky was captured
and sentenced to death in the electric chair. In his cell, Father
Jerry asked Rocky for a favor - to act fearful and cowardly ("yellow")
so he wouldn't be regarded by the slum neighborhood boys as a hero,
role model, or martyr. Rocky was reluctant to humble himself and
show fear in the death chamber as a cringing coward pretending to
be 'yellow.' However, In the film's concluding, unforgettable movie
moment - an uncharacteristically-fearful Rocky was led to his execution,
turning into a screaming, snivelling, cowering coward begging not
to be killed (seen in silhouette). The next day's news headlines: "ROCKY
DIES YELLOW: KILLER COWARD AT END!", were read by the neighborhood
kids who couldn't believe Rocky's cowardice, but accepted it. They
asked Father Jerry: "Did Rocky die as they said, like a yellow rat?" and Jerry
responded with the film's final words: "It's true, boys. Every
word of it. He died like they said. All right, fellas. Let's go and
say a prayer for a boy who couldn't run as fast as I could."
The Baker's Wife (1938, Fr.) (aka La Femme du
Boulanger), 133 minutes,
D: Marcel Pagnol
This charming comedy/drama,  adapted from Jean Giono's novel Jean
Le Bleu, was set in the small Provencal town in the late 19th century. Popular new (and
rotund) baker and bread-maker Aimable Castanier (Raimu) was married to
the beautiful and much younger Aurélie
Castanier (Ginette Leclerc). When the unfaithful Aurélie soon
ran off with a handsome shepherd named Dominique (Charles Moulin) for
a romantic rendezvous, the distraught Aimable stopped baking, became
suicidal, and started drinking heavily. The town's three leaders: the
Marquis Castan de Venelles (Fernand Charpin), the Schoolteacher or L'Instituteur
(Robert Bassac), and the Curate or Le Curé (Robert Vattier), planned
to find Aurélie and return her to Aimable, so that they could reconcile their marriage
and he could begin baking again.
Boys Town (1938), 96 minutes, D: Norman Taurog
Director Norman Taurog's and MGM's esteemed, heart-warming biographical
drama presented a portrayal of real-life,
pious and dedicated Catholic Father Edward Flanagan (Best Actor-winning
Spencer Tracy with his second consecutive win, after receiving
an Oscar for Captains
Courageous (1937)). It also featured a formulaic and
simplistic approach to the rehabilitation of teenaged criminals.
In the film's opening sequence, bitter and condemned convict
Dan Farrow (Leslie Fenton), shortly on his way to the electric
chair, asked Father Edward J. Flanagan in his cell: "How
much time do I got?" and he heard the reply: "Eternity
begins in 45 minutes, Dan." Farrow confessed his horrible
and wayward upbringing, including how he had become corrupted
within a state institution or reformatory. While riding on a
train back to Omaha, Flanagan recalled the
haunting (and echoing) words of Dan Farrow:
"12 years old. One friend. Starving kid. Never had a chance. Reformatory." As
a result, he became committed to developing a model community project
known as Boys Town near Omaha, Nebraska. It would bring wayward
orphans and juvenile delinquents from reform schools or gangs to
an environment for a second chance where they could be truly educated
in school and reformed. Father Flanagan pitched his
idea for a home for boys, first to skeptical Jewish pawnbroker and
friend Dave Morris (Henry Hull), who offered him some financial assistance
of $100 for a rented house and furniture; Flanagan's
main message and philosophy to prospective donors was: "There's
no such thing as a bad boy," although some doubted him and refused
his naive expectations. Skeptical, begrudging newspaper
magnate John Hargraves (Jonathan Hale) also spoke with Flanagan when
he was requesting funding and support for expansion: ("I want
your help for homeless boys. I want you to let the world know what
I'm trying to do"); Hargrave expressed opposition and some doubt
about his ability to run a facility full of delinquents: "No,
I'm afraid I can't do that....Because I don't believe in what you're
trying to do. The very foundation is false. 'No such thing as a bad
boy.' That's just a catch phrase, sentimental nonsense. Of course
you know you're flying in the face of the very best of public opinion...A
whole lot of good people feel just as I do and we're not un-Christian
monsters." Flanagan persuasively continued: "I want a home
for them where they can stay and where they can learn. A town for
boys governed by boys. It's worth a shot, isn't it?" - Hargraves
reluctantly agreed to support Flanagan's sincere and "unselfish" plan
- to build a boys home for troubled teens in Omaha, Nebraska, known
ultimately as Boys Town. A montage illustrated the building
of Boys Town - including the collection of funds, architectural blueprints,
staking of the property, the digging of the foundation and the use
of heavy machinery, carpentry, concrete mixing and brick-laying,
all culminating in a view of the finished product - FATHER FLANAGAN'S
BOYS HOME. A ceremony marked the completion of three buildings
(using the boys' labor), a US flag was raised, a band played, and
boys cheered and devoured a food table. Flanagan's
business partner, benefactor and financier Dave Morris reminded that
there were three mortgages on the property that threatened its survival; he worried
about the mounting debt: ("Look at the sweating you've done
to raise nickels, dimes, quarters, penny contributions. Now you've
got to get dollars, hundreds, thousands!"). Father
Flanagan was initially challenged when he came up against one of
the new arrivals - rebellious, cocky, tough-talking wise-guy punk
teen and poolhall shark Whitey Marsh (Mickey Rooney), the volatile
kid brother of convicted and imprisoned gangster-murderer Joe Marsh
(Edward Norris), who had requested that Flanagan care for him, for
$280. Whitey was a loveable but difficult and disruptive bad boy
delinquent. He was found playing cards and smoking with his gang
of friends. After dismissing the others, Flanagan removed Whitey's
feet from the top of the table, knocked the cigarette out of his
mouth, pulled him up by the collar and introduced himself:  "I'm
Father Flanagan. I saw your brother Joe just a little while ago.
We had a long talk about you, Whitey. Joe wants you to come with
me to Boys Town" - when Whitey refused and mouthed off, Flanagan struck back: "Now,
look, Whitey, in a pinch I can be tougher than you are, and I guess
maybe this is the pinch. You're coming with me to Boys Town because
that's the way your brother wants it. And that's the way I want
it" - he then reprimanded Whitey who was faking an arm injury: "Now,
why don't you stop acting like a kid, Whitey?" Whitey
remained at Boys Town but then suffered a number of setbacks to his
ego - he lost an election for the high position of the community's
Mayor (with his campaign slogan: "Don't
be a sucker!") to handicapped Tony Ponessa (Gene Reynolds), and
was defeated in a boxing match against Freddie Fuller (Frankie Thomas). Spitefully,
Whitey left Boys Town, and was involved in a car accident that injured
his pal Pee Wee (Bobs Watson) who had followed after him. Whitey
also came into contact with his older brother who had escaped custody
and was robbing a bank in Omaha (and Whitey was accidentally shot
in the leg). Whitey promised to not squeal and
refused to give up vital information that might incriminate his
brother - something that threatened to close Boys Town forever:
(Flanagan: "You're shielding someone. Are you going to see these boys turned out into
the streets, into the alleys, into reformatories, and worse, lose
their home?"). Whitey was ultimately
reformed and redeemed by Flanagan's patient efforts, when he helped
in the recapture of his brother and was returned to Boys Town,
where he was acclaimed as the new Mayor.
Bringing Up Baby (1938), 102
minutes, D: Howard Hawks
Director Howard Hawks' classic film was one of the greatest of Hollywood's
and RKO Studios' fast-paced screwball comedies, noted for the director's
ability to helm any film genre. This was the
second of four films pairing Cary Grant with Katharine Hepburn, and
reportedly the first film with the word "gay" in the dialogue.
Unbelievably, the film bombed at the box-office and as a result of
the commercial failure, Hawks lost his RKO production contract, and
Hepburn bought out her film contract (and continued to be labeled "box-office
poison"). Many years later, it was loosely
remade as What's Up, Doc (1972) starring
Barbra Streisand and Ryan O'Neal. In the fast-paced, inventive, and
sometimes lunatic comedy, in the opening scene, absent-minded, mild-mannered,
shy bespectacled paleontologist Professor David Huxley (Cary Grant)
was high up on a scaffolding
working in the Stuyvesant Museum of Natural History to assemble a Brontosaurus skeleton
(but he was missing only a single bone about to finally be delivered
- an "intercostal clavicle"). He was worried about an impending  $1
million dollar museum donation from wealthy, gift-giving philanthropist-sponsor
Mrs. Elizabeth Carlton Random (May Robson), aka Aunt Elizabeth. He
was also preoccupied by his stiff and bossy co-worker and bride-to-be
Miss Alice Swallow (Virginia Walker) who he would marry the following
day. That afternoon, David was playing
golf with Mr. Alexander Peabody (George Irving), a lawyer who
represented Mrs.
Random and would supervise  her proposed donation to complete
the construction of the hall. On the course, he encountered the scatter-brained,
mad-cap, fast-talking, flighty, eccentric heiress  Susan Vance (Katharine
Hepburn), Mrs. Random's niece, who continuously
interrupted his golf game with Mr. Peabody, and wrongly
claimed his golf ball was hers. She also drove away  in his battered
car as he pursued her and called out to his golf partner: ("I'll
be with you in a minute, Mr. Peabody!"). The
Professor kept running afoul with her during absurdist encounters
- at a fashionable supper nightclub in the Ritz Plaza Hotel, for
example, he slipped and took a pratfall on an olive that she had
dropped on the floor during an "olive game." Afterwards, he used
his torn tuxedo to cover up her torn evening gown as they exited,
and then confessed outside to her that he was fixated on her:  "I'm
strangely drawn toward you..."  before sprawling face-first
onto the ground. Comic, chaotic situations continued to arise when
she set her sights on him and sent his life into turmoil because
of her accident-prone nature. When she offered to drive him to her
Aunt Elizabeth's farm in Westlake, CT on the day of his marriage,
he wasn't aware that she had a music-loving, 3 year-old tame pet
leopard named Baby that she planned to bring along in the car. He
was also forced to bring along a package containing an important "intercostal
clavicle bone" for a brontosaurus reconstruction that he was
working on. When they arrived  at the farm, he had no choice but
to wear a frilly, fur-trimmed negligee, due to Susan's meddling.
And when greeted by Susan's Aunt, he had to blurt out: "I just
went gay all of a sudden." Further upset arose when David's
dinosaur bone was stolen by Susan's aunt's dog George (Asta of The
Thin Man series) and buried somewhere on the grounds. To
chase after an escaped Baby into the woods, Susan carried a butterfly
net while David was prepared with a rope and croquet mallet. They
found Baby sitting on a neighbor's roof, and to calm the tame leopard
and attract him down off the roof, they serenaded Baby with his favorite
and fondest song, "I Can't
Give You Anything But Love, Baby." (Complications arose when
a real, murderous escaped leopard from the circus was also on the
loose.) After causing a disturbance, the two were reported by the
home owner Dr. Fritz Lehman (Fritz Feld) and thrown in the local
jail by Constable Slocum (Walter Catlett). They occupied adjacent
jail cells in the Westlake City Jail where Susan fancifully pretended
to be a gangster moll (a member of the 'Leopard Gang,' infamous for
robberies and other criminal activities). After everything was cleared
up, and Alice broke up with David, Susan came (to return the missing
dog-buried bone) to visit David at the museum where he was high up
on a platform working on the brontosaurus skeleton. The zany film
concluded with her toppling the entire platform and skeleton to the
ground - as David grabbed onto Susan's dangling hand to rescue her.
The Citadel (1938, UK), 110 minutes, D: King
Vidor
Director King Vidor's drama was a film adaptation of A. J. Cronin's
1937 best-selling novel. A poor, but idealistic, dedicated Scottish
doctor Andrew Manson (Robert Donat) treated Welsh mining town miners
who were infected with work-related TB, caused by silica dust in
the anthracite mines. He dismissed his ideals and noble goals, however,
when he began a more lucrative practice by treating aristocratic,
rich London hypochondriacal patients instead, and cast aside his
faithful, equally-idealistic schoolteacher wife Christine (Rosalind
Russell) and his best friend Denny (Ralph Richardson). When his friend
died (due to medical incompetence from high-priced surgeon Charles
Every (Cecil Parker) after a car accident) and his wife convinced
him to restore his true goals in life (and restore faith in himself),
he reformed himself. Following an impassioned plea to the General
Medical Council to save his career, he returned to minister to the
people of the poor village.
Four Daughters (1938), 90 minutes, D: Michael
Curtiz
Director Michael Curtiz'  tearjerker and soap-opera-ish romantic
drama was derived from a story by Fannie Hurst, with three real-life
Lane sisters playing three of the four daughter roles. A music professor
and widower Adam Lemp (Claude Rains), the Dean of the Briarwood Music
Foundation, raised his four daughters: Thea (Lola Lane), Kay (Rosemary
Lane), Emma (Gale Page), and the youngest Ann (Priscilla Lane) in
a small town with the help of his sister - their elderly, no-nonsense
Aunt Etta (May Robson). Romance-minded Emma was courted by boy-next-door
neighbor florist Ernest Talbot (Dick Foran), while Thea wished to
marry wealthy banker Ben Crowley (Frank McHugh), and Kay was busy
with her singing career. The youngest, fun-loving Ann, vowed not
to marry. Then, all four daughters became enamoured with boarder
and pupil Felix Deitz (Jeffrey Lynn), a popular music conductor and
composer, who chose to be engaged to Ann. On the eve of their wedding,
realizing that Emma was really in love with Felix, Ann sacrificed
her love and ran off with surly, tough, cynical, reckless and bitter
musician Mickey Borden (John Garfield in his film debut). When poverty
made their relationship difficult and he committed suicide, Ann returned
home to be reunited with Felix.
Holiday (1938), 93 minutes, D: George Cukor
Director George Cukor's romantic comedy wonderfully
paired Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, the third of four instances
in which they appeared together. (The stars also appeared together
in  Sylvia Scarlett (1935), Bringing
Up Baby (1938), and The
Philadelphia Story (1940).) Considered a New Years'
Eve classic, it was adapted from the 1928 Broadway play written by
Phillip Barry. Both this remake film and
its earlier iteration Holiday (1930) (starring Ann Harding
and Mary Astor) were  financial flops. Its main theme was about
two impending marriages - one that was entirely wrong, and one that
was more appropriate. A non-conformist, independent-thinking,
poor, free-spirited young man Jonathan "Johnny" Case (Cary
Grant) was pressured to please his rich and pretty socialite fiancee
Julia Seton (Doris Nolan) and her stuffy privileged family and join
her blueblood, conservative widowed father Edward Sr.'s
(Henry Kolker) banking firm. A lavish engagement party for them
was planned for New Years' Eve in the Seton's extravagant and gigantic
Park Avenue mansion. Thirty year-old Johnny
refused to conform to the family's rigid demands and take Edward's
offer of a bank job by announcing that he was going on a long-term
'early retirement' holiday, but then reluctantly accepted a temporary,
two-year position at the bank (with the condition that he would
remain if he was happy) after marriage. However, he began to
realize deep-down that Julia's more free-thinking, vivacious,
unconventional, eccentric older sister Linda (Katharine Hepburn)
was the only one who understood and loved him for his independent
ways - and was a much better soul-mate and marital match. Linda's
and Julia's alcoholic and depressed younger brother Ned, Jr.
(Lew Ayres) was proof that slavish obedience to the family's
stifling and wealthy lifestyle had been damaging to his health
and well-being. In the film's conclusion, the marriage (and honeymoon
trip) was called off between Johnny and Julia, and Johnny reestablished
his plans to embark on a holiday voyage to Europe with his friends,
Professor Nick Potter (Edward Everett Horton) and his wife Susan
(Jean Dixon) - but this time, he would be taking Linda in Julia's
place.
Jezebel (1938), 104
minutes, D: William Wyler
In William Wyler's drama, Bette Davis gave a magnificent performance
- often compared to Gone
With The Wind (1939). The role was offered to her as consolation
by Warner Bros. because she was denied the role of Scarlett O'Hara.
Davis won her second Best Actress Award for her performance. In the
plot, headstrong, spoiled, self-centered Southern belle daughter
Julie Morrison (Bette Davis) of a Southern aristocratic family in
pre-Civil War New Orleans lost her fiancee Preston Dillard (Henry
Fonda) when she stubbornly defied the convention of the day by wearing
a scandalous red dress to the Olympus Ball. Embarrassed, he left
and unbeknownst to her married Northerner Amy (Margaret Lindsay).
When Preston returned three years later, she begged forgiveness but
it was too late, and she suffered hurt and rejection, and felt she
faced life alone. When an epidemic of yellow jack struck, she begged
Amy to accompany the mortally ill Preston to an island for quarantine
and care for him ("Help me make myself clean again as you are clean")
- it was the ultimate sacrifice.  The final view was of a resolute
Julie riding off in a quarantined wagon-load of yellow fever victims
(including Pres) to the hellish, condemned Lazarette Island.
The Lady Vanishes (1938, UK), 97 minutes,
D: Alfred Hitchcock
This was a highlight among Hitchcock's British films - a cleverly-contrived
and intriguing mystery story. It was remade as The Lady Vanishes
(1979) - a British comedy-mystery with Elliott Gould and Cybill Shepherd.
Set just before WW II, young socialite Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood)
was traveling on an express train from Mandrika and moving through
Europe to return to England (for her impending marriage). A
charming elderly lady, English governess Miss Froy (Dame May Whitty),
suddenly disappeared and it was discovered that
no one was willing to believe or accept that the lady had disappeared
or that she even existed. With the
help of fellow passenger-musicologist Gilbert Redman (Michael Redgrave
in his film debut), Iris sought to locate
Miss Froy. The suspense increased when Iris and Gilbert were
pulled into the beguiling and strange incident - with the only proof
being Miss Froy's name written in fog/frost on the train window.
Iris' memory and veracity were questioned, since she was hit over
the head with a flowerpot while boarding the train, suffered a concussion,
and might be delusional. During the quest for Miss Froy (who was
eventually discovered alive and safe), there were thoughts of a sinister,
mysterious conspiracy to kidnap her. Her disappearance was linked
to an espionage plot, and she was ultimately identified as a British
agent-spy who had memorized a musical tune (with a secret encoded
message) desired by the enemy - Hitchcock's trademark "MacGuffin." Miss
Froy had first heard the tune being sung by a Tyrolean street folk
singer outside of her hotel just before he was strangled, and she
was to deliver the message to the Foreign Office in Whitehall.
Olympia (1938, Germ.), 118 and 107
minutes (in two parts: Festival of the Nations, and Festival of
Beauty, aka Olympia 1. Teil: Fest der Volker, and Olympia 2. Teil:
Fest der Schonheit), D: Leni Riefenstahl
Innovative German film-maker Leni Riefenstahl  documented the 1936 Berlin Olympics
(famous for American track star Jesse Owens who won four gold medals for his
sprint racing) in this stunning film - with graceful and beautiful images of
'Aryan' athletes in competition. The film's innovations directly influenced future
televised sports coverage. It opened with a beautiful, silent prologue sequence
with views of ancient nude Greek statues (that seemingly came to life), nude
dancers, and near-nude male athletes. The images artistically captured the movement
of beautiful human bodies to perfection.
Pygmalion (1938, UK), 96
minutes, D: Anthony Asquith, Leslie Howard
This delightful romantic comedy was the first (non-musical) film
version of George Bernard Shaw's 1912 screenplay and 1913 stage play,
which had its British opening in 1914. The Broadway musical remake
that was inspired from this film, Lerner and Loewe's 1956 production,
also led to the famous film musical My
Fair Lady (1962), that would walk away with eight Oscars
(out of twelve), including Best Picture. The 1938 British film was
honored with four Academy Award nominations including Best Picture,
Best Actor (Howard), and Best Actress (Hiller), and one Oscar for
Best Screenplay. It was a socio-economic drama based on the Cinderella story,
but actually taken from the Greek myth of Pygmalion - about a sculptor
who fell in love with a marble statue of his own making. A
bullying, stuffy and smug bachelor, Professor
Henry Higgins (Leslie Howard) - a teacher of phonetics and linguistics,
made a bet with his friend, language scholar Colonel George Pickering
(Scott Sunderland) that he could educate and transform a common,
coarse and impetuous Cockney 'guttersnipe' flower seller from London's
Convent Garden, Eliza Doolittle (Wendy Hiller in her first screen
role) into being able to speak "genteel" (in proper English) and
pass as a captivating British lady/duchess of upper class breeding
- within six months - at the Ambassador's Ball. To do so, he had
to transform her thick-accented voice, by coaching her to speak
proper English with elocution lessons, teaching her manners, and
drilling her so that she would appear educated. "We
were above that in Convent Garden...I sold flowers. I didn't sell
myself. Now you've made a lady of me; I'm not fit to sell anything
else." "I'm a good girl, I am." She went through the
rigorous training reluctantly, especially after being scrubbed in
the bathtub, forced to dress in clean clothes, and incessantly drilled
in both etiquette and speaking. At a tea party, in her first public
testing, she blurted out, "Not
bloody likely" and scandalized the attendees. However, she made a
spectacular debut at the Ambassador's reception, proving him right
when she was mistaken as a princess, rather than as a guttersnipe.
In the process of teaching her, Higgins fell in love with her,
although she was also attracted by upper class gentleman Freddy Eynsford-Hill
(David Tree). After the bet was resolved between Pickering and Higgins,
Eliza was treated with disregard and cold indifference by Higgins,
and found that she couldn't just return to her old way of life. She
abandoned him (after throwing his slippers at him in frustration)
and left to be taken in by  her eager suitor Freddy. In the happy
conclusion, when Higgins was in his house playing a recording of
Eliza's voice from months earlier, Eliza surprisingly returned to
him (he had immensely missed her) for a hopeful reunion, although
he was still imperious and demanded: "Where the devil are my slippers,
Eliza?"
Test Pilot (1938), 118 minutes, D: Victor
Fleming
Director Victor Fleming's  exciting aviation drama featured stunningly-photographed
aerial sequences, and was one of MGM's greatest hits of the year.
It told the story of an adventurous, daredevil test pilot Jim Lane
(Clark Gable) who tested planes manufactured by Howard Drake (Lionel
Barrymore), aided by loyal mechanic Gunner Sloane (Spencer Tracy).
When testing a plane and forced to land in a Kansas cornfield, Lane
met and fell in love with farm girl Ann Barton (Myrna Loy) and
they married. Lane was a brilliant test pilot but unpredictable and
uneasy about settling down into domestic life as a husband and father.
He obviously enjoyed the risks of his profession, which made it difficult
for his wife to sit and watch him testing a new Air Force bomber.
You Can't Take It With You (1938), 126 minutes,
D: Frank Capra
Director Frank Capra's great and endearing Best Picture-winning
screwball comedy was based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning
play from Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman. Receptionist/secretary
Alice Sycamore (Jean Arthur) was the beautiful and sane daughter
of an eccentric and happy family, run by philosophical patriarch/grandfather
Martin Vanderhof (Lionel Barrymore). Family members were involved
in free-wheeling activities including painting and sculpture, ballet
dancing, fireworks invention and experimentation, xylophone playing,
mystery writing and more. Alice worked in the offices of capitalist
Anthony P. Kirby (Edward Arnold), a rich conservative banker. She
feared that she might never marry, due to her crazy family. However,
she became  engaged to Kirby's son Tony Kirby (James Stewart), a
down-to-earth son. Problems erupted when the two incompatible families
were to meet for dinner at the Sycamore's house before the wedding.
The Kirbys mistakenly arrived one day early, fireworks were accidentally
set off, everyone was carted off to jail, and the relationship between
Tony and Alice was quickly put in serious jeopardy - would their
love win out?
GREATEST FILMS
REVIEWS
THE BEST
HISTORY
GENRES
SCENES
OSCARS
QUOTES
DIRECTORS & STARS
Filmsite Home
About & Contact
Sitemap
FAQ
Reference
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 1996-2025 Filmsite LLC. All rights reserved.