Jeff Green, Utility Infielder - CelticsBlog
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
CelticsBlog homepage
Horizontal - White
CelticsBlog
a Boston Celtics community
Follow CelticsBlog online:
Follow CelticsBlog on Twitter
Follow CelticsBlog on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
CelticsBlog main menu
Fanposts
Sections
Betting
Library
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Fanposts
Sections
Boston Celtics Rumors
Boston Celtics Articles
Boston Celtics Daily Links
Boston Celtics Game Previews
Boston Celtics Scores
CelticsBlog Mailbag
Boston Celtics Videos
Celtics Salary Cap Info
Full Archive
Betting
FanDuel NBA Odds
FanDuel NBA Championship Odds
Boston Celtics Odds
NBA Picks and Predictions
Library
Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
CelticsBlog Posting Rules and Guidelines
Quick History of CelticsBlog
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
✕
Filed under:
Boston Celtics Articles
Jeff Green, Utility Infielder
By
Jeff Clark
Updated
Aug 25, 2011,  2:42pm EDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Jeff Green, Utility Infielder
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
Nobody can guard LeBron, but he seemed to do  particularly well against Green.
Jeff Clark
is the founder of CelticsBlog and has been managing the site and covering the team since 2004.
Yes, we're going to talk about Jeff Green again.  Well, I am.  You are welcome to take the conversation in a different direction if you want.  Green opened up his mouth in a period of time where there's nothing else to talk about so just about every writer jumped on the opportunity to give their updated thoughts on the man, and I'm no exception.
This blurb by Paul Flannery rings very true in my head.
In defense of Jeff Green - WEEI | Paul Flannery
Green needs the Celtics to help him get meaningful, consistent minutes, but they need him to make to develop, as well. While allowing that a 25-year-old player still has room to improve, Green’s shortcomings seem to be the classic case of being good at many things but not great at any one or two. Players across the league either make that transition or fall by the wayside. Green is talented, but this seems like the point in his career where he needs to define his game and carve out his niche.
Green is the classic Jack of All Trades, Master of None.  Or put another way, he's a utility infielder right now.  He can fill in at multiple positions but he's not good enough at any of them to oust the starter or even create a platoon situation.
I suppose, as Flannery suggests, that it is too early to write him off.  I'm sure less talented players have developed a niche later in their careers than Green.  In the right situation he should be able to focus on a few things and establish himself as a solid rotation guy for many years.
There are, however, two big issues getting in his way of doing that in Boston.
First he is a free agent, and if he's going to stay here, he and the team are going to have to agree on his value.  Ideally there would be a one year deal that let him prove his worth (be it the qualifying offer or even a higher one year deal to keep him from jumping to another team for more years).  But the owners and executives of NBA teams have proven that they are hardly the most rationale of sorts when it comes to spending their own money and all it takes is one GM to be convinced that Green is worth multiple years at 8 to 10M per money.
Second, there is the issue of expectations.  Through little fault of his own, Green has a huge target on his back with fans and the media.  Instead of being allowed to prove himself on his own merit, he has to live up to several legacies.  He has to be as valuable as Perkins to justify the trade.  Doc talked about him playing a James Posey type of role.  He replaced both Tony Allen and Marquis Daniels at the backup wing position and doesn't play defense as well as either of them.  If we had signed him as a free agent, he might have been allowed to carve out his own piece of legacy, but that didn't happen and he has to play with the cards he's been dealt.
Will he sink or will he swim?  Will he stay or will he go?  There are many questions with Jeff Green and we don't have a lot of answers right now, but that won't stop us all from talking about it.
More From
CelticsBlog
Boston Celtics Daily Links  3/25/25
Staring history in the face, Celtics should be extra cautious coming down the stretch
Billy Banners attends Celtics/Kings game
10 takeaways from a disciplined Celtics effort against the Kings
Jayson Tatum leaves Kings game with sprained ankle
Celtics extend win streak to six games, beat Kings 113-95
Most Read
Celtics extend win streak to six games, beat Kings 113-95
The Celtics knocked down 19 3-pointers and kept the hosting Kings at bay to win both sides of their West Coast back-to-back.
10 takeaways from a disciplined Celtics effort against the Kings
The Celtics struggled early on defense, but once the stops came, everything followed. Role players stepped up, court mapping was sharp, and Mazzulla’s group controlled the tempo on both ends. A win built on balance, patience, and trust.
Jayson Tatum leaves Kings game with sprained ankle
For now, the injury doesn’t look too serious.
Sign up for the
newsletter
Sign up for the Celtics Blog Daily Roundup newsletter!
A daily roundup of Boston Celtics news from Celtics Blog
Thanks for signing up!
Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required)
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Subscribe
close
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook