Martin Brodeur: Breaking News, Rumors & Highlights | Yardbarker
NEWSLETTERS
Emailed Daily.  Always Free!
Home
Quizzes
My Quiz Activity
Newsletters
Sports Betting
MY FAVORITES
Add Sports/Teams
SPORTS
NFL
NFL Home
Arizona Cardinals
Atlanta Falcons
Baltimore Ravens
Buffalo Bills
Carolina Panthers
Chicago Bears
Cincinnati Bengals
Cleveland Browns
Dallas Cowboys
Denver Broncos
Detroit Lions
Green Bay Packers
Houston Texans
Indianapolis Colts
Jacksonville Jaguars
Kansas City Chiefs
Las Vegas Raiders
Los Angeles Chargers
Los Angeles Rams
Miami Dolphins
Minnesota Vikings
New England Patriots
New Orleans Saints
New York Jets
New York Giants
Philadelphia Eagles
Pittsburgh Steelers
San Francisco 49ers
Seattle Seahawks
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Tennessee Titans
Washington Commanders
MLB
MLB Home
Athletics
Arizona Diamondbacks
Atlanta Braves
Baltimore Orioles
Boston Red Sox
Chicago White Sox
Chicago Cubs
Cincinnati Reds
Cleveland Guardians
Colorado Rockies
Detroit Tigers
Houston Astros
Kansas City Royals
Los Angeles Angels
Los Angeles Dodgers
Miami Marlins
Milwaukee Brewers
Minnesota Twins
New York Yankees
New York Mets
Philadelphia Phillies
Pittsburgh Pirates
San Diego Padres
San Francisco Giants
Seattle Mariners
St. Louis Cardinals
Tampa Bay Rays
Texas Rangers
Toronto Blue Jays
Washington Nationals
NBA
NBA Home
Atlanta Hawks
Boston Celtics
Brooklyn Nets
Charlotte Hornets
Chicago Bulls
Cleveland Cavaliers
Dallas Mavericks
Denver Nuggets
Detroit Pistons
Golden State Warriors
Houston Rockets
Indiana Pacers
Los Angeles Clippers
Los Angeles Lakers
Memphis Grizzlies
Miami Heat
Milwaukee Bucks
Minnesota Timberwolves
New Orleans Pelicans
New York Knicks
Oklahoma City Thunder
Orlando Magic
Philadelphia 76ers
Phoenix Suns
Portland Trail Blazers
Sacramento Kings
San Antonio Spurs
Toronto Raptors
Utah Jazz
Washington Wizards
NHL
NHL Home
Anaheim Ducks
Boston Bruins
Buffalo Sabres
Calgary Flames
Carolina Hurricanes
Chicago Blackhawks
Colorado Avalanche
Columbus Blue Jackets
Dallas Stars
Detroit Red Wings
Edmonton Oilers
Florida Panthers
Los Angeles Kings
Minnesota Wild
Montreal Canadiens
Nashville Predators
New Jersey Devils
New York Islanders
New York Rangers
Ottawa Senators
Philadelphia Flyers
Pittsburgh Penguins
San Jose Sharks
Seattle Kraken
St. Louis Blues
Tampa Bay Lightning
Toronto Maple Leafs
Utah Hockey Club
Vancouver Canucks
Vegas Golden Knights
Washington Capitals
Winnipeg Jets
NCAAF
NCAAM
Olympics
Boxing
Entertainment
Entertainment Home
Movies
TV
Streaming
Music
Comic Books
Lifestyle
Lifestyle Home
Health
Food
Drinks
Travel
Golf
MMA
Soccer
Tennis
Wrestling
More Sports
RESOURCES
My Account
YB on Facebook
YB on Twitter
YB on Flipboard
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
NCAAF
Sports Betting
Entertainment
Quizzes
···
Boxing
CFL
Casino
College Basketball
College Football
Entertainment
Formula One
Golf
Gymnastics
Horse Racing
IndyCar
MLS
MMA
Motor Sports
NASCAR
Olympics
Premier League
Skiing
Soccer
Sports Betting
Sports Business
Tennis
Track and Field
UFL
WNBA
Wrestling
More Sports ▸
Follow Us
On Facebook
On Flipboard
On Twitter
NEWSLETTERSEmailed Daily.  Always Free!
Martin Brodeur News
Home
Quizzes
Newsletter
Features
The Morning Bark
The Quiz of the Day
Popular Topics
Sports Betting
1 min
Trades & Transactions
5 min
Yardbarker Originals
Follow Us
Free Newsletters
On Facebook
On Twitter
On Flipboard
On YouTube
New Jersey Devils News / The Hockey Writers / March  2
Devils Legend Martin Brodeur Praises Jacob Markstrom’s Play
The New Jersey Devils just announced that Jacob Markstrom has been activated off injured reserve, after having missed over a month (since Jan. 22) with an MCL sprain.
New Jersey Devils News / Daily Faceoff / January 22
Martin Brodeur, Jack Hughes highlight Devils’ NHL quarter-century team
On Wednesday night, the NHL revealed the New Jersey Devils‘ quarter-century team. Representing the best players who have ever donned the black and red
St. Louis Blues News / Blade of Steel / January  9
Martin Brodeur Shares Story of St. Louis Blues Goaltender Jordan Binnington Refusing AHL Assignment
The St. Louis Blues have been lucky to have Jordan Binnington over the years, and he had great confidence from the start according to Martin Brodeur. Despite being one of the most hated goaltenders in the NHL due to his multiple issues on the ice, Jordan Binnington has had a fantastic career in St.
NHL News / ESPN / November 12
'Satan's Wallpaper?' Martin Brodeur nickname on 'Jeopardy!' perplexes hockey fans
The quiz show referred to the New Jersey Devils legend as "Satan's Wallpaper," a nickname many NHL fans were hearing for the first time.
Temple Owls News / The Temple News / October 22
Ospitale sparking Owls’ midseason turnaround
Growing up, Isabella Ospitale loved watching ice hockey with her dad. They specifically watched the New Jersey Devils together and Ospitale became fascinated with one player in particular; goalkeeper Martin Brodeur.
New Jersey Devils News / Breakaway on SI / October 15
Devils Legend Names Top Two Goalies in NHL
The Tampa Bay Lightning and New York Rangers are two of the top teams in the Eastern Conference, and according to New Jersey Devils' legend Martin Brodeur it's largely due to goaltending.
New Jersey Devils News / Full Press Hockey / October  4
Martin Brodeur and His Salary Still Looms Over the New Jersey Devils
The New Jersey Devils were looking to upgrade their goaltending position last summer but were hesitant to trade for and sign a goaltender to a long-term extension with a high salary cap hit.
New Jersey Devils News / NHL Trade Talk / October  1
Like Father, Like Son: Jeremy Brodeur Shines in Preseason Start
Jeremy Brodeur, son of New Jersey Devils legend Martin Brodeur, made his mark in his first preseason appearance against the New York Rangers on Monday night.
New Jersey Devils News / Hockey Unplugged / October  1
Jeremy Brodeur looked just like his father while making big saves in Devils debut (video)
Jeremy Brodeur is the son of legendary New Jersey Devils goaltender, Martin Brodeur, and on Monday, he got to start in a preseason game against the New York Rangers.
New York Rangers News / Dose.ca / August 13
Igor Shesterkin in the same conversation as Martin Brodeur, according to Cory Schneider
A few days ago, the NHL website unveiled its ranking of the top 10 goalkeepers in the NHL. At the top, I think we can agree that seeing Igor Shesterkin is no surprise.
Montreal Canadiens News / The Hockey Writers / May  6
May 6 Hockey Birthdays: Brodeur, Gallagher, Watson
On May 6, we celebrate the birthdays of 22 past and present NHL players. Today’s list includes a five-time Stanley Cup winner, the longest-tenured player with the Montreal Canadiens, and arguably the game’s greatest goalie.
NHL News / All About The Jersey / March 29
It’s Not Babying, It’s Generally a Risk to Start Goalies Back to Back
Martin Brodeur spoke to the media recently about the state of goaltending. He said that goalies today were being “babied” and not playing back-to-back.
NHL News / Dose.ca / March 27
Martin Brodeur thinks teams coddle goalkeepers too much
We’re all familiar with Martin Brodeur’s career. Beyond his statistics, it’s his longevity and consistency that have been truly impressive. He now occupies a position in the Devils’ senior management team and is able to witness the NHL’s evolution over the years at close quarters.
NHL News / Yardbarker / January 31, 2024
Stanley Cup odds: What happened to this preseason favorite?
The NHL All-Star break is as good a time as any to check in on which teams are exceeding expectations and which former favorites have proven us wrong.
New Jersey Devils Stock Up/Stock Down: All Star Break Edition
The '2002-03 New Jersey Devils' quiz
Who scored the most goals for every NHL franchise?
New Jersey Devils News / The Hockey Writers / January 27, 2024
Devils’ Goalie Struggles Since The Brodeur Era
After years of expectations, the New Jersey Devils finally have a competitive team that can dream big. The three-time Stanley Cup champions have long been
New Jersey Devils News / Yardbarker / November 10, 2022
Legendary NHL goalie has new important role with New Jersey Devils
The New Jersey Devils announced on Thursday morning that Hall of Fame goalie Martin Brodeur has a new role with the organization and has been hired as the team's Director of Hockey Operations.
Alex Ovechkin reveals who he'd want as a linemate with Sidney Crosby
Fate of Coyotes' arena proposal to be decided by public vote in May 2023
Watch: Jack Eichel scores hat-trick in return to Buffalo, taunts Sabres fans
Canucks forward Tanner Pearson out four to six weeks after hand surgery
Blue Jackets' Zach Werenski leaves game early with upper-body injury
NHL News / Yardbarker
The 25 best NHL defensemen of all time
Evaluating defensemen can be a tricky subject because defense in hockey has always been a difficult thing to quantify. Is it just about keeping the puck out of your own net?
The 25 best NHL forwards of all time
The 25 best NHL goalies of all time
NHL News / Yardbarker
The NHL's top 25 goalies of all time
What makes a great goalie? Is it just simply doing enough to get the win and making the big save at the big moment? Is it short-term brilliance and dominance?
Martin Brodeur News / MSG Networks / October  6, 2018/
NHL News / Yardbarker / May 15, 2018
The most bizarre moments in NHL playoff history
Before the Boston Bruins were eliminated in the second-round of the Stanley Cup Playoffs, they were at the center of one of the weirder storylines in recent playoff memory when Brad Marchand, one of their best players, kept licking opponents.
Remembering the 1975 'Fog Game'
Brad Marchand on licking opponents: ‘I’ve got to cut that (expletive) out’
Jagr will play in Czech Republic in 2018-19
Greatest NHL playoff beards of all time
The 'Capital offense' quiz
NHL News / Yardbarker Quizzes
The 'NHL Goalies with the most postseason wins' quiz
In the history of the NHL, 26 goalies have won 45 or more playoff games over the course of their careers. How many of the 26 can you name in five minutes?
No fly-by Knights: How far can Vegas take its run?
Marc-Andre Fleury's career resurgence in the desert
Vegas native Bryce Harper has Golden Knights logo on his bat
NHL News / Yardbarker
NHL goalies who carried their teams to the Stanley Cup Final
Big goals are the big standouts when it comes to the Stanley Cup Playoffs, but to make it all the way to the Final, it also takes an out-of-this-world performance from the player between the pipes.
The most bizarre moments in NHL playoff history
The top player performances in NHL playoff history
Who won the Stanley Cup the year you were born?
The 'Marc-Andre the Giant' quiz
NHL News / Yardbarker Quizzes
The '10+ shutouts by an NHL goalie' quiz
54 NHL goaltenders have registered 10 or more shutouts in a single season. How many of them can you name?
NHL News / Yardbarker Quizzes
The 'Vezina Trophy winners' quiz
The Vezina Trophy honors the top goaltender in the NHL.Can you name every winner of the Vezina Trophy since 1927?
Trending News
NFL -
Stefon Diggs signs huge contract with AFC team
NFL -
Wilson in line to start after finally signing with new team
MLB -
Angels make surprising decision on pitching prospect
NCAAM -
NCAA Tournament team dropping to Division III in shocking move
NFL -
Steelers' quarterback situation suddenly gets more complicated
NHL -
Canadiens receive multiple pieces of bad news
MLB -
Angels release former first overall pick
NHL -
Maple Leafs' depth in crease takes potential hit
My Favorites
NFL
News
Stefon Diggs signs huge contract with AFC team
Russell Wilson in line to start after finally signing with new team
Bengals have taken one outcome 'off the table' with Trey Hendrickson?
MLB
News
Angels make surprising decision on pitching prospect
You may not believe what Pirates star Paul Skenes does before starts
NL East predictions: Young Nationals outfielder enjoys breakout year
NBA
News
Bronny James is showing he’s more than just a famous last name
Bronny James continues progression with career-best in G League
Payton Pritchard makes more history as he closes in on award
NHL
News
Top available defensemen in free agency after Capitals' extension of Jakob Chychrun
Capitals re-sign key defenseman to long-term contract
Golden Knights activate Shea Theodore from injured reserve
College Football
News
Bill Belichick may have had good reason for skipping UNC pro day
Stanford opening gives Andrew Luck chance to quickly remake Cardinal
Reporter suggests Giants could pass on drafting QB Shedeur Sanders at pick No. 3
College Basketball
News
Michigan State is mirroring its 2000 national championship run
Duke-Arizona Sweet 16 matchup will complete March Madness trilogy
NCAA Tournament team dropping to Division III in shocking move
Customize Your Newsletter
+
Get the latest news and rumors, customized to your favorite sports and teams. Emailed daily. Always free!
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Popular Quizzes
Can you name the NBA players to lead the league in assists per game?
Can you name the active MLB pitchers with the most career strikeouts?
Can you name the MLB active leaders in home runs?
Can you name every NBA Defensive Player of the Year?
Can you name the NBA's active leaders in 20-point, 10-assist games?
Can you name the last player for every NFL team to have 100 catches in a season?
Today's Latest News
Stefon Diggs signs huge contract with AFC team
Russell Wilson in line to start after finally signing with new team
AL Central predictions: Trade acquisition puts together All-Star season
Vikings' J.J. McCarthy drops massive update amid Aaron Rodgers rumors
Stanford opening gives Andrew Luck chance to quickly remake Cardinal
Steelers' quarterback situation gets more complicated after unexpected report out of Minnesota
Maple Leafs' depth in crease takes potential hit as goalie injury rears its ugly head
Canadiens receive multiple pieces of bad news amid heated playoff chase
MY ACCOUNT SUBSCRIBE ADVERTISE JOBS FAQ
PRIVACY POLICY EDITORIAL POLICY CONTACT US
ABOUT YARDBARKER TERMS OF SERVICE
FREE NEWSLETTERS
Copyright 2025 YB Media, LLC.
All rights reserved.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and
components) constitutes your acceptance of these
Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
This site is for entertainment purposes only.There is no gambling offered on this site.
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-Gambler.