M State
Skip to main navigation
Skip to main content
Search
Search
Quicklinks
Quick Links
SpartanNet
Athletics & Livestream
Bookstore
Class Schedules
Contact Us
Employee Portal
Employee/Student Email
Forms
Help Topics
Housing
Request a Transcript
Transfer to M State
Veterans Services
Learn at M State
Programs and Degrees
Campus Locations
Academics
Academic Support
Life At M State
Campus Community
Housing
Dining
Student Support and Well-being
Equity and Inclusion
Apply to M State
Admissions
Apply Now
Registration
Visit M State
Request Information
Admission Requirements
Admissions Team
Cost & Financial Aid
Tuition and Expenses
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Page management tools
Primary tabs
View
Si Prepublish
Si Recheck
Hero
Your future starts at M State
Plan your visit today to one or more of our four campuses in Detroit Lakes, Fergus Falls, Moorhead and Wadena
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply Now
Paragraphs
Why M State?
98%
placement rate
#1
community college in MN
70+
programs and degrees
4
campuses, plus online
24
average class size
A success story for every student.
Meet Mercy
"When I was in my country, I practiced midwifery, and that’s what I want to do after I graduate from M State. I tell my friends who have come here as immigrants that it doesn’t have anything to do with age, it just takes focus."
Read Mercy's story
See all student stories
M State programs are in fields employers are hiring for.
Accounting
You'll get all the accounting skills and knowledge you need to begin your career with confidence with this degree program.
Learn more about Accounting
Accounting Clerk
You’ll be on your way to a career in financial accounting in just two semesters with this diploma program.
Learn more about Accounting Clerk
Accounting Transfer Pathway
Enjoy all the advantages of an affordable smaller college as you lay the educational foundation for advanced studies in accounting.
Learn more about Accounting Transfer Pathway
Advanced HVAC/R
This diploma program gives you the next-level training you need to become qualified for specialized work in the commercial refrigeration industry.
Learn more about Advanced HVAC/R
Advanced Practice Esthiology
Licensed estheticians and cosmetologists: expand your skills and licensure to offer advanced skincare services and procedures.
Learn more about Advanced Practice Esthiology
Agribusiness
Cultivate a fruitful career in agricultural sales, management or technical work with this degree program.
Learn more about Agribusiness
American Sign Language
Strengthen your sign language skills and gain a better understanding of Deaf culture, history and experiences with our degree and certificate options.
Learn more about American Sign Language
Architectural Drafting and Design
You’ll be ready to begin a career with an architectural or engineering firm or construction industry-related contracting, manufacturing or distribution company after completing M State's Architectural Drafting and Design program.
Learn more about Architectural Drafting and Design
Art Transfer Pathway
Be as creative about your college plan as you are about your artwork: Start your studies at M State and then seamlessly transfer to a university to finish your four-year degree.
Learn more about Art Transfer Pathway
Associate Degree Nursing
Meet the requirements for professional licensure as a registered nurse with this hands-on degree program that features multiple clinical experiences.
Learn more about Associate Degree Nursing
Associate of Arts - Liberal Arts and Sciences Transfer Pathway
This popular, flexible transfer program gives you the freedom to concentrate in the liberal arts field of your choice.
Learn more about Associate of Arts - Liberal Arts and Sciences Transfer Pathway
Associate of Arts - Social Science Emphasis
Prepare for a career or further study in sociology, social work and human services with this degree program.
Learn more about Associate of Arts - Social Science Emphasis
Automotive Service Technology
Work on cars and light trucks side-by-side with expert instructors at our on-site lab to diagnose, repair and prevent mechanical issues. Both a degree and diploma option are available.
Learn more about Automotive Service Technology
Biology Transfer Pathway
This degree program will give you the foundational coursework you need to seamlessly transfer to a university to pursue an advanced degree in biology.
Learn more about Biology Transfer Pathway
Business
Concentrate in the business field of your choice to prepare for a career in retail, insurance, sales and other in-demand professions with this degree program.
Learn more about Business
Business Administration
This two-term diploma program can stand on its own or be seamlessly integrated into our Business degree program.
Learn more about Business Administration
Business Transfer Pathway
Start your studies in business at M State and then seamlessly transfer to a university to complete your bachelor’s degree.
Learn more about Business Transfer Pathway
Child and Adolescent Therapeutic Behavioral Health
Become certified to begin a rewarding career in supervised behavioral health care for children and adolescents.
Learn more about Child and Adolescent Therapeutic Behavioral Health
Computer Programming
Prepare for a position in a lucrative field with this nationally-recognized degree program. You'll learn to design and develop computer software and information systems.
Learn more about Computer Programming
Construction Management
Build the construction and leadership skills most wanted by industry employers with this across-the-board degree program.
Learn more about Construction Management
Cosmetology
Hands-on practice at our campus salon helps you build skills in hair, skin and nail care – and earn clinic hours to put toward your licensure.
Learn more about Cosmetology
Criminal Justice
Graduates of this degree program are in high demand thanks to its regional reputation for high quality, along with growing career opportunities in law enforcement.
Learn more about Criminal Justice
Cybersecurity
Learn how to keep networks secure and data safe – skills today's employers can't get enough of – with our Cybersecurity degree and certificate programs.
Learn more about Cybersecurity
Dental Assisting
Gain the knowledge and hands-on skills experience to work closely and confidently with dentists during direct patient care, including diagnostic, preventative and operative procedures.
Learn more about Dental Assisting
Dental Hygiene
Develop the skills to enjoy a rewarding career in comprehensive dental hygiene care with this hands-on degree program.
Learn more about Dental Hygiene
Design and Engineering Technology
Enter the workforce or pursue advanced studies after completing this associate degree program. A certificate option is also available.
Learn more about Design and Engineering Technology
Diesel Equipment Technology
Tools supplied to second-year students and four different degree and diploma tracks, including a sponsored degree, put this program a cut above.
Learn more about Diesel Equipment Technology
Digital Marketing
Master the latest digital tools and technology to create engaging, inspiring marketing campaigns with this degree program.
Learn more about Digital Marketing
Early Childhood
Open your own in-home childcare business or work at a childcare center upon completion of this certificate program.
Learn more about Early Childhood
Early Childhood Education Transfer Pathway
Start your education at M State and then seamlessly transfer to a university to pursue an advanced degree in Early Childhood Education.
Learn more about Early Childhood Education Transfer Pathway
Electrical Line Worker Technology
This popular program has a reputation for excellence. You'll get all the hands-on skills practice you need at our 90-acre training facility. Both a degree and diploma option are available.
Learn more about Electrical Line Worker Technology
Electrical Technology
Job placement rates are typically 98-100% for this high-demand diploma program, which couples electrical theory coursework with hands-on practice.
Learn more about Electrical Technology
Elementary Education Transfer Pathway
Upon completion of this 60-credit M State degree, you'll be a thoroughly prepared elementary teacher candidate ready to create engaging and inclusive classrooms.
Learn more about Elementary Education Transfer Pathway
Engineering
Enjoy all the advantages of an affordable smaller college as you lay the educational foundation for advanced studies in engineering with this degree program.
Learn more about Engineering
Entrepreneurial Certificate
The practical, professional knowledge you need to start and run your own successful business.
Learn more about Entrepreneurial Certificate
Environmental Science
This degree program will prepare you for a rewarding career in the natural sciences. You may also choose to pursue further studies at a four-year college or university.
Learn more about Environmental Science
Esthetician
The knowledge, exam prep and hands-on skills practice you need to earn your licensure and begin a rewarding career in skin care.
Learn more about Esthetician
Global and Intercultural Studies
Liberal arts degree-seeking students can gain a global perspective and meet their elective requirements with this embedded certificate program.
Learn more about Global and Intercultural Studies
Graphic Design
Earn your certificate or diploma to grow your passion for design and enjoy an exciting, creative career.
Learn more about Graphic Design
Health Information Technology/Coding
Care for patients by caring for their medical data with this comprehensive, reputable degree program.
Learn more about Health Information Technology/Coding
Health Sciences Broad Field
Start your studies at M State and then seamlessly transfer to a university to pursue an advanced degree in health sciences.
Learn more about Health Sciences Broad Field
History Transfer Pathway
This degree provides the foundational knowledge you need to make a smooth and successful transition into a bachelor's degree program in history.
Learn more about History Transfer Pathway
Human Resources
Degree and certificate programs will help you develop your business acumen and human relations skills to become a trusted HR professional.
Learn more about Human Resources
HVAC/R
Qualified HVAC/R workers are in high demand, and our hands-on diploma program will fully prepare you for a successful career in the industry.
Learn more about HVAC/R
Information Technology
The technology training you need to begin a career in one of the fastest-growing job fields in the nation. Choose between two different degree options.
Learn more about Information Technology
Integrated & Professional Studies
A degree program uniquely designed and developed by you, for you – with college credits given for relevant prior work experience.
Learn more about Integrated & Professional Studies
Limited Scope Radiography
You’ll be ready to perform a variety of radiography exams on patients upon completion of this in-demand diploma program.
Learn more about Limited Scope Radiography
LPN to Associate Degree Nursing Bridge
This degree program is designed for licensed practical and vocational nurses who want to become registered nurses.
Learn more about LPN to Associate Degree Nursing Bridge
Massage Therapy
Take on a truly hands-on career: complete this flexible diploma program and support people’s health with therapeutic massage.
Learn more about Massage Therapy
Medical Coding
Fill an essential in-demand administrative role in healthcare with this specialty diploma program.
Learn more about Medical Coding
Medical Laboratory Technology
Sixteen weeks of real-world clinical experience is an important component of this associate degree program.
Learn more about Medical Laboratory Technology
Music
Choose a vocal or instrumental focus and gain live performance experience with this Associate of Fine Arts degree.
Learn more about Music
Nail Technician
The knowledge and hands-on skills practice you need to really nail a career as a manicurist and pedicurist.
Learn more about Nail Technician
Nursing Assistant
Begin a rewarding career in healthcare fast with this 77-hour course offered by our workforce development division.
Learn more about Nursing Assistant
Payroll Specialist
Professionally prepare and report payroll, a specialty within the field of accounting, with this two-term diploma program.
Learn more about Payroll Specialist
Phlebotomy Technician
Enter this in-demand healthcare field fast with our one-semester certificate program, which includes a valuable five-week clinical experience.
Learn more about Phlebotomy Technician
Plumbing Technology
Benefit from this diploma program's hands-on plumbing experiences, an internship in the field, and potential industry incentives.
Learn more about Plumbing Technology
Political Science Transfer Pathway
Start your studies in political science at M State and then seamlessly transfer to a university to complete an advanced degree.
Learn more about Political Science Transfer Pathway
PowerSports Technology
Degree, diploma and certificate options all provide industry-recognized training in the service and repair of small engines for motorcycles, snowmobiles, ATVs and watercraft.
Learn more about PowerSports Technology
Practical Nursing
An ideal diploma program for anyone beginning their nursing career or wanting to continue their education in nursing.
Learn more about Practical Nursing
Psychology Transfer Pathway
You'll be prepared to take on advanced studies in psychology with this seamless transfer pathway degree.
Learn more about Psychology Transfer Pathway
Radiologic Technology
This competitive degree program will prepare you for a rewarding career in a high-demand health care specialty.
Learn more about Radiologic Technology
Sonography-Echocardiography Technology
Realize a rewarding, lucrative career in a specialty healthcare field with this hands-on degree program.
Learn more about Sonography-Echocardiography Technology
Sport Management
Turn your passion for athletics into a professional purpose – score a rewarding career in the sports industry with this degree program.
Learn more about Sport Management
Surgical Technology
Train for a rewarding and in-demand career as a surgical technologist, caring for patients during the surgical process, with this degree program.
Learn more about Surgical Technology
Visual Arts
Painting, photography, printmaking, ceramics and other forms of visual art are at the heart of this foundational certificate program.
Learn more about Visual Arts
Get Started
Thriving at M State
From fun student organizations and athletics to helpful resources and services, there’s a community waiting for you at M State.
Explore M State Life
How to Apply
We’re here for you. Get step-by-step guidance on requirements for admission and with the application process.
Visit Admissions
Cost and Financial Aid
M State has one of the lowest tuition rates in Minnesota. With financial aid, grants, scholarships and sponsorships, the future you imagine is within reach.
View Tuition and Expenses
News and Stories from M State
Browse News
Browse Stories
Get Started at M State!
Request Info
Visit Campus
Apply Now
Text M State: 218.396.7282 Call M State: 877.450.3322 International Calls: 218.210.8088TTY MN Relay Service: 218.210.8088Give to M StateDonate
Campuses
Detroit Lakes
Fergus Falls
Moorhead
Wadena
Online
For ...
High School Students
K-12 Educators
Employers
Business Community Partnerships
Workforce Development
M State
About M State
Mission and Values
Leadership and Governance
Accreditation
M State Foundations
Work at M State
Employee Directory
Policies and Procedures
Professional License Disclosures
Report a Concern
Student Right-to-Know
Title IX
Ancillary
Contact Us
Privacy Statement
Minnesota State Community and Technical College, a member of the Minnesota State system
Translate this page to: AfrikaansArabicChinese (Simplified)Chinese (Traditional)FilipinoFinnishFrenchHaitian CreoleHmongJapaneseKoreanKurdish (Kurmanji)NepaliNorwegianOdia (Oriya)PersianPortugueseRussianSamoanSerbianSpanishSomaliSwahiliSwedishTurkishVietnamese