cityonfire.com | Godzilla: Final Wars
Godzilla:
Final Wars
"...it feels
more like a stand-alone. And boy does it stand alone, as a completely atypical
Godzilla and even Japanese film. "
- Ningen
Godzilla:
Final Wars (2004)
AKA: Gojira:
Fainaru uozu, Godzilla X Godzilla, The Godzilla 2004, Godzilla 28
Director:
Ryuhei Kitamura
Writer:
Isao Kiriyama, Ryuhei Kitamura, Wataru Mimura, Shogo Tomiyama
Producer:
Shogo Tomiyama
Cast:
Masahiro Matsuoka, Rei Kikukawa, Akira Takarada, Kane Kosugi, Kazuki Kitamura,
Maki Mizuno, Masami Nagasawa, Chihiro Otsuka, Don Frye, Naoko Kamio, Tsutomu,
Kitagawa, Kumi Mizuno, Motokuni Nakagawa, Toshihiro Ogura, Mick Preston,
Kenji Sahara, Kenji Sawada, Shinji Suzuki, Masanobu Takashima, Yasuhiro
Takeuchi
Running
Time: 110 min.
Plot: After
more than 10 monsters appear in the world at once, an enormous flying object
appears and extinguishes the monsters with a beam in a matter of seconds.
And then, aliens who call themselves "Xiliens" propose a peace treaty with
Earth...
Availability:
This title is available at HKflix.com
Reviews
NINGEN'S
REVIEW: Note
that the only previous film of Kitamura's I've seen was Versus. I haven't
seen Azumi and didn't even play that MGS remake for the GC in which he
was involved. Anyway, while it was supposed to be a sequel to the last
three Godzilla films by Masaki Tezuka (Megaguiras, X MechaGodzilla, and
Tokyo S.O.S.), it feels more like a stand-alone. And boy does it stand
alone, as a completely atypical Godzilla and even Japanese film.
In this installment,
the Japanese government trains WMAC Masters-I mean mutants-to take down
future kaiju. The soldiers are not very interesting, personality-wise;
nor are they really important to the plot, except for a few climactic moments.
Plus, the actors are not very professional-looking fighters. And it shows
with the scattered camerawork, which isn't as erratic as Kill Bill or Romeo
Must Die, but, when done in slow-mo, is quite tedious. KitamuraÝ proved
he can shoot original fights scenes in Versus, but in Final Wars, he just
rips off some of the better moments from Matrix Reloaded. (Although I will
admit he put a slightly interesting spin on the freeway chase, but John
Woo pretty much had that ground covered in Mission Impossible 2.) And if
Reloaded wasn't enough, they decided to have Godzilla fight the meteor
from Armageddon, as well as giant monsters spawned by a space ship straight
out of ID4.
The aliens
in UFO pretend to come in peace, but we all know they have no intention
"to serve man". (Not that I know if Kitamura even saw that Twilight Zone
episode, but considering the montage of scenes from American pop culture
already inserted into this flick, I wouldn't be surprised.) Unfortunately,
since most of the earth's already been trashed, only UFC fighter Don Frye
and a group of advisors and ship operators can take the enemy down. Don
Frye's character is like Godzilla's Captain Ahab. He'll put everything
on the line, if he knows he can beat the lizard. But after capturing him
at the beginning of the movie, he ends up freeing him so he can confront
the other kaiju. So while Don Frye suddenly turns from Morpheus-they both
carry a samurai sword(!)-into Han Solo, Godzilla turns into Goku, pretty
much wiping out each monster he encounters with the help of his kamehameha
wave (I mean fire-breath) and Mothra.
Now I don't
expect these flicks to have the best in acting, but Frye's the only "thespian"
who shows any emotion and seriousness about his lines. The Japanese actors
are usually just running and jumping around in a sad attempt for you to
care about them.Ý When you care more about Frye and the dog which shows
up occasionally in the film, you know Toho could've done a better casting
job.
And since
I've already complained about the hand-to-hand combat, the "claw-to-claw"
combat was slightly disappointing as well. At first, I thought they were
going to use that cliche in 80's ninja movies where a guy fights one ninja
at a time instead of being jumped by all of them at once, but eventually,
Godzilla does fight more monsters than he can handle, and does some cool
tricks.Ý It's just that the effing subplots take more precedence than the
fights, which is a big no-no for a Godzilla film. The only sub-plot that's
even remotely enjoyable is when a grandfather and his grandkid are driving
Jar Jar-I mean Son of Godzilla(Minilla)-around the countryside. But all
in all, I feel like I'm watching a bigger-budgeted Power Rangers, not a
Godzilla film. I just hope if Kitamura gets any Hollywood projects, that,
unlike Nakata, he'll actually have something new to add to them.
NINGEN'S
RATING:  7.5/10
for being unable to fulfill my expectations. Add a 1.5 if you haven't seen
any Hollywood flicks since Jurassic Park.