100 Most Controversial Films of All Time
Filmsite: written by Tim Dirks
Search for:
Go
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Email
GREATEST FILMS
Greatest Films: Overview
100 Greatest Films
101-200 Greatest Films
201-300 Greatest Films
200 Greatest Films - By Decade
300 Greatest Films - By Decade
Greatest Films - By Year
Top 100 Box Office of All-Time
Top Films of All-Time
Greatest Film Series-Franchises
Greatest Films - Criteria
Most Influential Films
Greatest American Movies - AFI
Other Lists of Great Films
REVIEWS
Film Reviews: Overview
All Film Reviews
Greatest Film Reviews - By Decade
Film Reviews - Most Popular
Film Reviews - Moments & Scenes
Film Terms - Glossary
Film Viewing - Tips
Movie Trivia Quizzes
Film References
THE BEST
"Greatest" and "Best" Collections
Best
Genre-Type Films
Bond Films - Best to Worst
'Chick Flicks'
Guy Movies
Three Great Horror Franchises
Sexiest Films of All-Time
Greatest War Films
Greatest Westerns
Greatest Zombie Films
Top Film Franchises-Series
Movie Title Screens
Plot Twists, Spoilers, Surprise Endings
Best Film Speeches & Monologues
James Bond Films
Great Bond Girls
Film Noir - Greatest Femmes Fatales
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 States: Most Authentic Films
Greatest Movie Props of All-Time
Robots in Film
HISTORY
Film History: Overview
Film History - By Decade
Film History Milestones - By Year
Great Films - By Year
Box Office Greats
Top 100 Blockbusters
Top 100 Films of All-Time
Top Box-Office Hits - By Decade/Year
Top Summer Blockbusters of All-Time
Biggest Box Office Bombs & Flops
Sex in Cinema - Comprehensive History
Most Controversial Films
Visual & Special Effects Milestones
Movie Title Screens: Film Franchises
Greatest Movie Props in Film History
Great Christmas Movies
GENRES
Main Film Genres
Action
Adventure
Comedy
Crime-Gangster
Drama
Epics-Historical
Horror
Musicals-Dance
Science Fiction
War
Westerns
Film Sub-Genres
Biopics
Chick Flicks
Courtroom Dramas
Detective-Mystery
Disaster
Fantasy
Film Noir
Guy Films
Melodramas
Road Films
Romance
Sports
Super-Heroes
Supernatural
Thrillers-Suspense
Zombies
Other Major Film Categories
Animated
British-UK
Children/Family
Classic
Cult
Documentary
Serial
Sexual-Erotic
Silent
Sub-Genres Types (and Hybrids)
Best Picture Genre Biases
Summary of Top Films by Genre
Top 100 Films By Genre Type
100 Greatest Cult Films
100 Greatest Film Noirs of All-Time
50 Best Sci-Fi Films of All-Time
AFI's Top 10 Film Genres
All-Time Highest-Grossing by Genre
SCENES
Scenes: Overview
Scenes: Compilations
Greatest Scenes: Collections
Greatest Chases
Greatest Crowds
Greatest Deaths
Greatest Disasters
Greatest Entrances
Funniest Scenes
Scariest Scenes
Sexual - Erotic Scenes
Film Kisses of All-Time
Greatest Music: Song & Dance
Greatest Tearjerkers
What's a Great Film Scene?
Scenes Mini-Quiz
100s of the Greatest Film Scenes
100 Greatest Film Scenes
100 Most Iconic Film Scenes
100 + Scariest Movie Images of All-Time
100 Great Movie Moments (Ebert)
50 Greatest Moments (TV Guide)
Sex in Cinema - Scenes
OSCARS
Academy Awards: Overview
Academy Awards: By Decade and Year
Top Award Winners: Summary
Best Picture
Best Picture: Movie Title Screens
Best Picture - Milestones
Best Picture - Genre Biases
Best Director
Best Actor
Best Actress
Best Supporting Actor
Best Supporting Actress
Best Screenplay/Writer
Mistakes and Omissions
Snubbed by Oscar
Worst Oscar Awards
QUOTES
Great Quotes: Overview
Top 100 Greatest Film Quotes
Great Film Quotes: By Decade
50 Great Movie Quotes
Most Popular Movie Quotes
Top 10 Most Famous Quotes
Top 10 Best Lines Ever
Top 10 Comedy Movie Lines
Top 10 Worst Quotes
Quotes: Speeches & Monologues
Greatest Film Misquotes
Great Opening Film Lines
Great Last Film Lines
Funniest Movie Quotes
Greatest Brief Film Quotes
Film Taglines
DIRECTORS & STARS
Directors/Stars: Overview
50 Greatest Actors/Actresses
Greatest Stars: Roles & Films
Greatest Film Characters of All-Time
Greatest Film Star Legends
Sexy Hollywood Bombshells
Greatest Film Directors
More Great Directors
Film Director Cameos
Stanley Kubrick's Greatest Films
Alfred Hitchcock's Greatest Films
Hitchcock's Film Cameos
Hitchcock's MacGuffins
The 100+ Most Controversial
Films of All-Time
1975
The 100+ Most Controversial Films of All-Time
Movie Title Screen
Film Title/Year, Director
Screenshots
Ilsa: She Wolf of the SS (1975)
Ilsa: Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks (1976)
Ilsa: The Wicked Warden (1977)
Ilsa: The Tigress of Siberia (1977)
Ilsa: She Wolf of the SS
(1975, Canada)
D. Don Edmonds
Inspired
both by art-house sensation The Night Porter (1974) and
real-life "Bitch
of Buchenwald" Ilse Koch, this sex/torture movie spawned a
wave of "nasty Nazi" movies.
This 1975 Canadian production (from David F. Friedman)
- a cult classic, was the original film in a series of infamous,
violent and shocking B-films, exploitational films, all with the
title of Ilsa. The series was reportedly based upon the real-life
actual Nazi Ilse Koch known as the "Bitch
of Buchenwald,"        and  upon actual tortures and atrocities
committed by the merciless Nazi murderess during the Holocaust.  The
subtitle advertised that Ilsa herself was: "The Most Dreaded Nazi
of Them All." Although dedicated to the victims
of the Holocaust, the film was banned in Germany.
Ilsa: She Wolf of the SS - sick, degenerate
and semi-pornographic with abundant gratuitous full-frontal female
nudity and gruesome incidents (such as flesh-eating maggots), was
shot on the set used for the Hogan's Heroes TV show after
it was cancelled in the early 70s. It was part of the era's trend
to exhibit women-in-prison (WIP) films and add Nazi-exploitation to
the mix, after the tremendous success of Love Camp 7 (1969).
There were three low-budget sequels that followed:
Ilsa: Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks (1976)
Ilsa:
The Tigress of Siberia (1977)
Ilsa:
The Wicked Warden (1977) ("unofficial")
Ilsa: Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks (1976)
Ilsa: The Tigress of Siberia (1977)
Ilsa: The Wicked Warden (1977)
[Note:
Ilsa: The Wicked Warden (1977) (aka Greta, the Mad Butcher, and
Wanda, the Wicked Warden), was an "unofficial" Ilsa
film directed by independent Spanish exploitation master Jess Franco.]
Ilsa (Las Vegas showgirl
Dyanne Thorne) was featured as the camp's nymphomaniacal, dominatrix,
big-busted, blonde, over-the-top, sadistic commandant of the camp (stalag).
In the opening scene,  Ilsa was forcing herself on
a male prisoner, and threatened him with castration if he couldn't
hold out long enough to satisfy her. Obviously, he didn't, because
she had to satisfy herself with a shower head. (Soon after, there
was a male castration - mostly off-screen but still gruesome.)
Naked Inspections
Red-Headed Prisoner (Colleen Brennan, aka Sharon
Kelly)
Anna (Maria Marx)
Rosette (Jacqueline Giroux)
Electrified Dildo Torture
Ilsa also personally inspected stripped female prisoners
(including many female cult starlets).
She decided which would be 'retrained' to serve the soldiers of the
Third Reich, or be subject to torturous medical or "scientific" experiments
(including the use of huge electrified black dildos, and electrodes
or nipple clamps attached to sensitive areas) - private research
designed to prove that females could take more pain than males. When
one prisoner refused to have her genital area shaved, she was held
by the hair on her head and threatened: "I will shave her so
close, the blood will run."
One torture victim (Uschi Digard) was strung
up in a pressurized chamber, and female prisoner (Sharon Kelly)
was hung upside down outdoors. Another prisoner (Peggy Sipots)
was gagged, hung by her neck with a noose and standing on a melting
ice block (at the end of a dinner table during a party held for other
German commandants). After the dinner, the drunken
and aroused Commandant invited Ilsa to urinate on his face as he laid
down on the floor in front of her.
One of the American prisoners, Wolfe (Gregory
Knoph), satisfied Ilsa's unsatiable appetite for sex - and ultimately
led a prisoner uprising. In the conclusion, Wolfe
was able to convince Ilsa to be tied up on her bed (for S&M bondage
sex games) before he gagged her and let a mutilated Anna approach to
stab her (but she fell limp and died? before killing her).
Ilsa's busty
blonde, half-naked henchwomen were also dragged out into the compound
and shot for revenge. Just before the Allies arrived,
the Reich had ordered the camp to be destroyed (and everyone killed)
by the Nazis themselves. Ilsa's brains were blown out while she was
still tied up on her bed (and then there were three sequels to this
film?) The leader of the massive cover-up to eliminate evidence and
witnesses radioed into his headquarters:
"General, your orders have been carried out.
Camp 9 has ceased to exist. You may tell the Reich Fuhrer that
the Allies will find nothing. They will never know."
From a hillside, it was revealed that there were two
who could testify as survivors of the horrific prison camp: Wolfe
and Rosette.
Commandant Ilsa (Dyanne Thorne)
Prisoner (Donna Young)
Anna (Maria Marx)
Pressurized Chamber Victim (Uschi Digard)
Red Headed Prisoner (Colleen Brennan)
Prisoner on Ice Block
(Peggy Sipots)
Male Castration
Revenge
Avenging Anna
Ilsa's Death
Salo (1975, It./Fr.) (aka The
120 Days of Sodom, or  Salò o Le 120 Giornate
di Sodoma)
D. Pier Paolo Pasolini
Radical
Italian artist Pier Paolo Pasolini's movie equated fascism and
sexual torture, and its graphic images aroused outrage and disgust.
Salò was directed by the notorious
Italian poet, novelist, painter and film-maker Pier Paolo Pasolini,
who was murdered before it was released. The art house film was
based on a work
120 Days of Sodom by the notorious Marquis de Sade - to
depict the short-lived, lakeside republic of Salo in Nazi-controlled
N. Italy at the close of WWII. There, four ruling fascist officials
in a secluded chateau near Marzabotto totally controlled, abused,
tortured, enslaved and victimized an anonymous group of about 30
young and attractive peasant teenagers (both male and female) who
were rounded up.
Salo aroused outrage and disgust when it was released.
It was prosecuted by various film certification boards and banned
outright in numerous countries.
The nihilistic film's many
contested scenes immediately ran into censorship problems and utter
disgust. Its four chapters clearly delineated the reason for the
aroused outrage:
"Antechamber of Hell"
"Circle of Obsessions"
"Circle of Shit"
"Circle of Blood"
The film began with
perverted acts of degradation, carnal debaucheries, and atrocities
-- the male and female youths who were seized in the town were stripped
and inspected ("A
delicious little ass. Never seen one firmer. A pair of little breasts,
to revive a dying man") and then driven to the secluded chateau.
The
group of four fascist officials (with four similar females) subjected
them to sexual and physical tortures, psychological humiliation and
violence over a period of a few days.  They were instructed that
every day would include these acts: "intermingling, entwining
and copulating incestuously, committing adultery and sodomy."
This extreme exercise and abuse of power
was supposed to symbolize the evil of fascism itself. The acts of perversion
were justified and exalted by the philosophy of libertinism. The
imprisoned youth ("Weak,
chained creatures, destined for our pleasure") were warned they
were "beyond
the reach of any legality." One girl committed suicide by slashing
her own throat to escape the humiliations.
Breakfast in the dining hall was served by naked girls
- one of whom was tripped and raped from behind, after which another
male was penetrated anally.
Soon after, the entire group engaged
in a mock "wedding
feast." A
couple (hapless blonde Renata and Sergio), accompanied by dozens
of naked flower-bearing bridesmaids and bridesmen, participated in
a ring ceremony, often interrupted by unprovoked gropings of the
nudes. The two were first encouraged to fondle each other and show
their affection, but denied consummation, and then were anally raped
by the libertines (and in addition, there was an instance of three-way
intercourse from behind).
The Mock "Wedding Feast"
In one scene, the youths were stripped, collared, leashed,
and forced to act like dogs begging for pieces of meat (one girl
bit into a piece of food laced with nails) and then followed by whippings
for disobedience. Male masturbation was practiced
with a life-sized dummy. A contest was held to
judge the "loveliest ass
in the villa"  - the youths were arranged in a circle on the
floor in the dark, bent over with their behinds facing upwards and
inspected by flashlight during the judging, as the men commented: "The
differences between boys and girls are enormous...let's try to be
objective."
Enforced Victimization and Degradation
for Peasant Youth, Even Murder
In  "Circle of Shit" (a segment obsessed
with anal bodily functions), Renata - a hapless grieving blonde girl,
was forced to eat human excrement (a metaphor for capitalistic consumerism
and junk food) as she was urged on by a man after he freshly defecated
on the floor:
"Come, little one, it's ready. On your knees.
Courage. Go on, eat! Take this spoon. Eat!"
The other girls
were forced to eat their own excrement deposited in bed pans. A second
mock "wedding feast" served platters of cooked excrement
for the guests as an "intoxicating dish." Another young
girl was commanded to stand above a man and urinate into his open
mouth.
"Circle of Blood"  began with a group wedding
ceremony in which the three cross-dressed older men were coupled
with a male youth and then engaged in homosexual kissing and sodomy
in the bedroom, in a master/slave relationship.
As punishment for
breaking the rules, male youth Ezio was executed, along with his
black maid partner, for illegally making normal love together. The
teens were further tortured for their "misdeeds" - bound
by their wrists and sitting in a tub of excrement, as one girl cried
out: "God, why did you abandon us?"
In the conclusion,
further tortures in the outdoor courtyard, viewed voyeuristically through
binoculars, included penis and breast nipple-burning, tongue-extraction
and cutting, strangulation by hanging, eye-gouging, scalping, whippings,
and male nipple branding!
"A pair of little breasts,
to revive a dead man."
Suicide
Serving of Excrement
Consumption of Feces
Urination Into Man's Mouth
Rebellious Ezio Executed
Ezio's Black Maid Partner Also Executed
Torture in the Courtyard, Voyeuristically Viewed Through Binoculars (below)
Genital Burning
Nipple Scalding
Tongue Cutting
Hanging
Eye Gouging
Scalping
Nipple Branding
The
100+ Most Controversial Films of All-Time
(chronologically, by film title)
Intro | Silents-1930s | 1940s-1950s | 1960-1961 | 1962-1967 | 1968-1969
1970-1971 | 1972 | 1973-1974 | 1975 | 1976-1977 | 1978 | 1979
1980-1982 | 1983-1986 | 1987-1989 | 1990-1992 | 1993-1995 | 1996-1999
2000-2002 | 2003-2005 | 2006-2009 | 2010-present
GREATEST FILMS
REVIEWS
THE BEST
HISTORY
GENRES
SCENES
OSCARS
QUOTES
DIRECTORS & STARS
Filmsite Home
About & Contact
Sitemap
FAQ
Reference
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 1996-2025 Filmsite LLC. All rights reserved.