American Music Therapy Association | American Music Therapy Association (AMTA)
American Music Therapy Association
Home
Contact
News
Help/FAQ
Members Only Login
Please enter email.
Please enter password.
Quick Links
My AccountFacts About Music TherapyMusic Therapist QualificationsMusic Therapy in the MediaJournal of Music Therapy Member Access PortalMusic Therapy Perspectives Member Access PortalAMTA Member ToolkitAMTA-Pro Podcasts21st Century CommissionAMTA Archives
Support Music Therapy!
Donate Directly to AMTA Online! Click here to learn more.
Become a Friend
of Music Therapy!
Designation
#11588
Follow AMTA
on Social Media
Photo Credits:
iStock Photo
Can Stock Photo
Cosmic Events, LLC
About Music Therapy  & AMTA
What is Music Therapy?
Who are Music Therapists?
AMTA Board of Directors
What is AMTA?
Membership in AMTA
Support Music Therapy
Education  & Careers
A Career in Music Therapy
Education and Clinical Training Information
National Roster Internship Sites
Find a Job in Music Therapy
Advertise a Job in Music Therapy
Scholarship Opportunities for AMTA Members
Continuing Music Therapy Education
Research
Music Therapy Journals & Publications
Selected Bibliographies
Researching Music Therapy
Strategic Priority on Research
Arthur Flagler Fultz Research Award from AMTA
Policy  & Advocacy
Advocacy Basics
Federal Advocacy
Federal Advocacy - for members
State Advocacy
State Advocacy - for members
AMTA Government Relations Team
Coalitions & Partnerships
Coalitions & Partnerships - for members
Advocacy Events
Advocacy Events - for members
Find My Legislators
Events
All Events
Advocacy Events
Advocacy Events - for members
Special Events & Media
Sponsor AMTA Events
Bookstore
Advertising in AMTA Publications
Publish with AMTA
Join AMTA/Renew Membership
Donate to AMTA
Visit the Bookstore
Member  Resources
Membership in AMTA
Job Center
Scholarships for AMTA Members
Official Documents
News from AMTA Committees & Boards
Member Toolkit
Reimbursement Resources
Online Publications & Podcasts
AMTA Member Recognition Awards
Continuing Music Therapy Education
Music Therapy Makes a Difference
Music Therapy is an established health profession in which music is used within a therapeutic relationship to address physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs of individuals. Click the picture to learn more.
What is the Profession of Music Therapy?
Music Therapy is the clinical & evidence-based use of music interventions to accomplish individualized goals within a therapeutic relationship by a credentialed professional who has completed an approved music therapy program. Click to learn more.
How Does Music Therapy Work?
Music therapy interventions can address a variety of healthcare & educational goals: Promote Wellness, Manage Stress, Alleviate Pain, Express Feelings, Enhance Memory, Improve Communication, Promote Physical Rehabilitation, etc. Click to learn more.
Is Music Therapy Effective?
Research in music therapy supports its effectiveness in a wide variety of healthcare and educational settings. Click the picture to learn more.
Where Do Music Therapists Work?
Music therapists work in medical hospitals, treatment centers, psychiatric hospitals, schools, community mental health centers, drug & alcohol programs, senior centers, nursing homes, hospice programs, correctional facilities & more. Click to learn more.
What Do Music Therapists Do?
Music therapists assess emotional well-being, physical health, social functioning, communication abilities, & cognitive skills through musical responses; design music interventions for individuals and groups based on client needs; & follow up progress.
Who is Qualified to Practice Music Therapy?
Those who complete an approved music therapy degree, internship, and who pass the Certification Board for Music Therapists' certifying exam, earning the credential MT-BC (Music Therapist, Board Certified). Click the picture to learn more.
Who Can Benefit from Music Therapy?
Children, adolescents, adults, & the elderly with mental health needs, developmental & learning disabilities, Alzheimer's disease, aging related conditions, substance abuse problems, brain injuries, physical disabilities, acute and chronic pain, & more.
Does Research Support Music Therapy?
AMTA promotes a vast amount of research exploring the benefits of music as therapy through publication two research journals and other sources. A substantial body of literature exists to support its effectiveness. Click the picture to learn more.
What is AMTA's Mission?
The mission of the American Music Therapy Association is to advance public awareness of the benefits of music therapy and increase access to quality music therapy services in a rapidly changing world. Click the picture to learn more.
AMTA System Update March 19, 2025
AMTA Community,
Thank you for your patience with the recent system upgrade to the back-end of our website.  We are currently working on several sections of our content that were linked to our prior system.  If you are a member and need to login into your account, please go into My Account on the Quick Links section.  If you need any information please contact us at info@musictherapy.org and we'll respond quickly.   Thank you.
You Can Help Support Music Therapy!
The American Music Therapy Association® is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to advance public awareness of the benefits of music therapy and increase access to quality music therapy services in a rapidly changing world. You can help support this mission.
Please visit the donation campaign on GiveLively
and make a tax-deductible donation today!
Music Therapy is the clinical & evidence-based use of music interventions to accomplish individualized goals within a therapeutic relationship by a credentialed professional who has completed an approved music therapy program. Music therapy interventions can address a variety of healthcare & educational goals and many can benefit from music therapy services. The base of evidence in music therapy research is extensive and strong.
AMTA works to support and strengthen the music therapy profession, expand access to music therapy, raise awareness about its benefits, support research, and empower music therapists to serve diverse populations.
AMTA Membership in 2025!
Join AMTA or
Renew Your Membership Today!
​
Latest News
view all news stories
Saturday, March 22, 2025
Government Relations Update March 22, 2025
Department of Education Executive Order
DESCRIPTION OF ISSUE: On March 20, 2025, the Administration issued an Executive Order directing the Education Secretary to close the federal Department of Education and return authority over education to the states. This GR Update provides information on AMTA Coalition work and action items to make your voice heard to save the Department of Education,
Continue Reading
Saturday, March 15, 2025
Government Relations Update March 15, 2025
Efforts to eliminate the U.S. Department of Education and federal protections for students with disabilities
Multiple White House Administration orders, along with federal and state actions currently underway are creating serious concerns about our nation’s ability to provide a free and appropriate public education to students with disabilities.
Continue Reading
Saturday, March 8, 2025
AMTA Government Relations Update 3-7-25
Veterans Administration’s Termination of Recreational and Creative Arts Therapists
DESCRIPTION OF ISSUE: To comply with the administration’s executive order to reduce the federal workforce and increase efficiency, federal agencies have been terminating the employment of federal workers still in their probationary periods. This national initiative has now impacted a number of Recreational Therapists and Creative Arts Therapists within the VA healthcare
Continue Reading
Friday, March 7, 2025
Announcing the New Vice President Elect - Nicole Bowen
The American Music Therapy volunteer Board of Directors is pleased to welcome Nicole Bowen as the new Vice President-Elect. Ms. Bowen was appointed to the position in late February and announced at the Assembly of Delegates meeting. The AMTA officers, Board of Directors, parliamentarian and legal counsel worked closely together to ensure that the appointment process moved forward in compliance with AMTA bylaws.  Ms. Bowen begins immediately working closely with current Vice President, Jennifer...
Continue Reading
Thursday, March 6, 2025
March 2025 Community Update
For our March Community Update, please check your email.
Continue Reading
Monday, February 24, 2025
**** Urgent Call-to-Action: ACT TODAY to Save Medicaid ****
In the next 24 hours, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a budget bill designed to cut Medicaid by $880 Billion, benefiting the top 1% of American earners and causing great harm to the lower 40% of American earners. The House Budget Committee is proposing to cut $880 billion in budget cuts with Medicaid as the primary target. The US House of Representatives is preparing to vote in the next 24 hours, we need to send a clear message:
Don’t cut Medicaid!
Continue Reading
Wednesday, February 19, 2025
A Changing World: A Message from AMTA
AMTA President Angie Snell and AMTA Director of Government Relations, Judy Simpson speak to the numerous changes at the Federal level, concerns of how that affects our clients and ourselves and suggestions on moving forward.
Continue Reading
Copyright © 1998-2025.  American Music Therapy Association® and its logo are registered trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office. Information, files, graphics, and other content on this site are the property of the American Music Therapy Association® and may not be used, reprinted or copied without the express written permission of the American Music Therapy Association.
The American Music Therapy Association® is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization and accepts contributions which support its mission. Contributions are tax deductible as allowed by law.
Site MapPrivacy PolicyTerms & Conditions Contact Us
8705 Colesville Road, Suite B, #290
Silver Spring, MD 20910
Phone: 301.589.3300  Fax: 301.589.5175