Walloon-General Overview
Walloon
Language
General
Overview
Area
of Distribution and Number of Speakers
Walloon is spoken nowadays in the
modern Belgian provinces of Hainaut, Liège, Namur, Luxembourg, and
southern Brabant (they are called often Wallonia), in tiny parts of Northwestern
France (mainly in the city of Givret in the departement of the Ardennes),
and in the region of Green Bay in the United States (Wisconsin), where
a compact group of Walloons settled in the 19th century. Walloon was previously
spread in Luxembourg also, where it disappeared recently.
It is estimated that Walloon is used
actively by 10-20% of the total population of Wallonia or between 300,000
and 600,000 people. The proportion of those who can understand it is higher.
The proportion of those who can read and write is very small indeed. There
are only few monolingual speakers, although there are still more than a
handful whose main language is Walloon, especially among the elderly generations.
Linguistic
Environment
Other regional languages spread in
certain areas of Wallonia include three Langue d'oil speeches:
Picard
(in western half of the province of Hainaut), Lorrain (in some southern
villages of the Luxembourg province) and Champenois (in one village
in the south of the province of Namur); the Germanic Letzebuergesch
(Luxembourgeois) is found in the region of Arlon.
All these languages are spoken in
the neighboring countries: the major part of the Picard and Lorrain linguistic
areas are in France and Letzebuerguesh is the official national language
of Luxembourg.
Origin
and History
Walloon is a Langue d'oil speech,
which developed between the 8th and the 12th centuries from the Gallo-Romance
language. It preserved its linguistic peculiarities throughout the periods
of Burgundian,
Spanish, Austrian, French, and Dutch
domination that preceded the establishment of the Kingdom of Belgium in
1830.
As a matter of fact Walloon is closely
related to French and is usually considered by the linguists to be one
of its dialects. There is, anyway, a local view about Walloon as a separate
language. According to it there are to be distinguished three language
levels in Wallonia: standard French, Walloon
in its different dialects, and local colloquial variant of French
(i.e. a dialect of French) which is colored by Walloon influences.
The nature of the Medieval Walloon
is sometimes subject of disputes between modern scholars. The main question
that arise is whether it was French decreasingly smacking of Walloon or
Walloon increasingly smacking of French. The fact that we study the linguistic
developments of this remote period by the means of written documents only
prevent us of giving a definite answer. At first, the written language
may be more or less artificial (we could suppose it was a type of scripta);
and at second, we could be never absolutely sure about the exact pronunciation
of the written text. It is evident anyway, that in the course of the centuries
the written language was approached closer and closer to standard French,
with a very few known exceptions.
Standard French gained in Wallonia
the status of the only language for official, formal use, especially among
the upper classes in the prosperous urban areas. In the beginning of the
17th century however, there emerged a bulk of literary works in Walloon,
supposedly because people got conscious of what they were writing was far
away from what they spoke. Since then, the literature in Walloon has been
developing without interruption.
Though the bourgeoisie adopted the
standard French in the 18th and 19th centuries, until 1900 most of the
population used only Walloon in everyday life. But the number of speakers
fell sharply between 1930-1960 and so has the functional and social range
of the language. French was by then considered the only language to assure
full social integration and success in the professional carreer.
At present it seems the extremity
of the functional deadend is near, with some people claiming that Walloon
should be revered only as a relic of the past, a literary language or,
at best, "the language of the heart", but not of everyday speech.
Literature
The first literary work in Walloon,
Cantilène
de Sainte Eulalie, appeared c. 900. From the middle of the 12th century
there appeared several other works in vernacular. They were anonymous tracts,
among which was the Poème moral, consisting of nearly 4,000
alexandrines. In 13th-15th centuries Walloon literature is marked by the
importance of its local chronicles and its religious tracts and drama.
At the beginning of the 17th century
the literary possibilities of Walloon were greatly developed, particularly
in the district of Liège, and, from then on, the number of writings
increased. Poems about the everyday life or incidents of local history
were at vogue. Use of the Walloon broadened in the 18th century with the
success of opéra comique at Liège. A group was formed,
known as the Théâtre Liégeois, and met with instantaneous
success. In the 19th century were written over 10,000 plays, mainly comedies.
In this period the number of poets and other writers increased. Chief among
them were Charles Nicolas Simonon, François Bailleux, and Nicolas
Defrêcheux. The first two of these writers introduced sentiment into
dialect literature, while to the third belongs the honour of being the
first great Walloon lyric poet. A notable event was the establishment at
Liège, on Dec. 27, 1856, of the Société de Littérature
Wallonne, which became a real regional academy with a considerable
influence on both language and literature. From then on, there was an increase
in the number of poems, songs, plays, and even translations into Walloon
of important foreign authors.
By the end of the 19th century there
were many writers working in the Walloon dialects, lacking neither in range
of styles nor in diversity of inspiration. Most of these authors, however,
chose a rather doctrinaire realism to depict workaday existence and remained
somewhat hidebound by social conventions.
Walloon literature, though limited
in its audience, explored new paths in the 20th century. One of the most
remarkable developments has been in the dialect studies undertaken by numerous
scholars. The literary possibilities of the dialect have also been extended
as a result of standardization of the rules of spelling and grammar.
Contemporary
dialects
Over an area of some 20,000 sq km
Walloon is manifested through four dialect groups:
central, with the capital
of Wallonia, Namur (Nameur), and the cities of Wavre (Auve) and
Dinant;
eastern, with Liège
(Lîdje),
Malmedy
(Mâmdi), Verviers
(Vervî), Huy
(Hu)
and Waremme (Warème);
western, with Charleroi
(Châlerwè), Nivelles (Nivèle), Philippeville
(Flipvile);
southern, i.e. the Ardennes
region, with e.g. the city of Bastogne, Marche (Mautche) and Neufchâteau
(Lu Tchestê).
Phonetics
and Phonology
The affricate [d]
that developed from the Latin j and from the palatalization of g
before e and i/y was preserved, cf. Wall. djonne [dn]
vs.
F. jeune [œn]
<= L. juvene(m)
young.
The affricates [t]
and [d]
that developed from the specific to the Northern Gaul palatalization of
c
and g before a were also preserved in Walloon, cf. Wall.
vatche
[vat]
vs.
F. vache [va]
<= L. vacca cow and Wall.
djambe
[db]
vs.
F. jambe [b]
<= Rom. gamba <= L. campa leg.
Latin s before consonant
subsists:
cf.
Wall. spene vs. F. épine, OF.
espine
<=
L.
spîna
thorn,
fistu
wisp
of straw <= cf.
L.
fistula
tube,
biesse
stupid
vs.
F. bête, OF. beste <= L.
bestia
beast.
Voiced consonants at the end of words
become voiceless: cf. Wall. rodje [rt]
vs.
F. rouge [ru:]
red.
Nasal vowels may be followed by nasal
consonants, as in djonne young, crinme
cream,
branmint
a
lot of, etc., as in the old fashioned French pronunciation of femme
as [fm].
Vowel length is of semantical value,
because it allows to distinguish e.g. cu [ky] <= L.
cûlus
ass
from cût [ky:t] <= L. coctus cooked,
messe
mass
from mêsse
master,
i
l' hosse he cradles her from
i
l' hôsse he increases it, etc.
Morphology
The plural feminine adjectives before
the noun take an unstressed ending -ès (except in the Ardenne
dialect): cf. li djäne foye the
yellow leave and les djänès foyes the
yellow leaves.
There is no gender difference in
definite articles and possessives (except in the Ardenne dialect): cf.
Wall.
li vweture the car, feminine
and li cir the sky, masculine
with French la voiture but le ciel; Walloon has si
cwär his/her body, masculine
and si fignesse his/her window, feminine
while French has son corps but sa fenêtre.
Syntax
The adjective is often placed before
the noun: cf. Wall. on fwärt ome vs. F.
un
homme fort a strong man; Wall. ene
blanke måjhon vs. F. une maison blanche
a
white house.
There is a remarkable influence from
the Germanic languages: cf. the construction Cwè-ç ki
c'est di ça po ene fleur? What is this
flower? which can be compared word by word to German Was ist
das für eine Blume?
Vocabulary
Walloon still has some latin remnants
that have disappeared from the neighboring Romance languages, for instance
Wall.
dispierter
and Sp.
despertar
to awake.
There are numerous borrowings from
Germanic languages (Flemish and German dialects) and even the term Walloon
is of Germanic origin: compare Wall.
flåw
and
today's Dutch
flauw
weak.
Other common Germanic loan words, among hundreds of others, include: dringuele
(cf.
Dutch drinkgeld) tip, crole
(cf.
Dutch krul) curl,
spiter
(same
root as the English to spit, or German spützen)
to
spatter,
li sprewe (Dutch
spreeuw) the
starling, etc.
Dialectical
differences
Dialectological studies have been
flourishing in Wallonia for nearly a century and dialectology has long
been considered the only way of studying the language.
Some classical examples of dialect
differences are:
existence of the phoneme [h] in the
eastern dialect: pèhon fish
vs.
pèchon
elsewhere (the proposed standard spelling
is
pexhon for both).
the Latin suffix -ellum gave
-ê
or
-ia,
resp. in the eastern and southern dialects, and in the central and western
dialects: batê versus batia (the proposed
standard spelling is batea for both).
Latin o is maintained
in the central, eastern and southern dialects, while it became ou
in the western dialect and parts of the southern dialect: rodje
vs.
roudje.
Morphology of the verbs. The imperfect
ending of the verb viker to live
may be: dji vik|éve (eastern), dji vik|eûve
(central),
dji
vik|o (southern),
dji vik|eu (western), etc.
Lexical differences: a nice example
is "dirty", which can be said mannet (central and western),
måssî
(eastern),
niche
(southern)
or yôrd (western).
Present
Situation
Although there has long been a group
of philologists willing to promote Walloon, it is only recently that a
movement in favor of the Walloon language developed which simply promotes
its use, and asserts that it has still a role to play in today's Walloon
society. There is no spoken standard. The efforts to develop a written
one are recent too.
Official attention came in 1990,
with the vote of a decree which recognizes the existence of "endogenous
languages" in the so-called "French community" (i.e. Wallonia and the French-speaking
population of Brussels) of the Belgian federal state.The decree states
that these languages should be studied and their use encouraged. A specific
committee for "endogenous languages" was created with the Ministry of Culture.
The room allowed for Walloon on television, however, went on declining,
it was neither introduced in the schools, nor even the local place names
were officially changed according to their Walloon pronunciation.
Literature, anyway, is alive and
well with new authors appearing regularly in several literary magazines.
Theatre is still flourishing with over 200 non-professional companies playing
in the cities and villages of Wallonia for an audience of over 200,000
each year. In the media, Walloon is present on the state TV (about 2 hours
on Saturday afternoons) and on the state radio (about 3 hours on Friday
evenings). However, the language is permanently under pressure (budget
and time reductions, etc.).
Several French-speaking private
radios and national papers and magazines leave a room for Walloon, either
regularly or occasionally. Walloon is sporadically present in the church
(at marriages, special masses...). After a boom in the 70s, the Walloon
song is waning, though there is renewed interest with a couple of rock
bands now singing in Walloon.
Walloon is almost totally absent
in the educative world: teachers are not trained to teach the language,
the educational material is scarce, and the lack of a written standard
makes it all the more difficult to teach Walloon for teachers who are not
necessarily speaking the dialect of the area where they work, to children
who come from several parts of Wallonia and, in addition, who are more
and more French-only speakers. The main association for the promotion of
Walloon is the Union Culturelle Wallonne (UCW), which is
made of five provincial associations and over 250 local Walloon associations,
the majority of which are theater companies, but also e.g. writers' associations
or the five provincial Walon è Scole (Walloon at school)
committees. The main objectives of the UCW are now to promote the use of
Walloon in the basic functions and levels of social life (in the family,
for instance), while defending and co-ordinating the very rich association
network (theater), supporting the presence of Walloon in the media, the
schools, the laws, etc.
This page is
based mainly on materials from Li Ranteule Association.
Walloon
Language Main Page
Modern
Romance Languages
Main Page
Orbis
Latinus Main Page
This
page is part of Orbis Latinus
©
Zdravko Batzarov