Jelani Name Meaning
Login with facebook to share on facebook
x
Login with Facebook
Login
SignUp
Baby Names
African names
American names
Arabic names
Australian names
Celtic names
English names
French names
Gaelic names
German names
Greek names
Hebrew names
Hindu names
Indonesian names
Iranian names
Irish names
Japanese names
Korean names
Latin names
Malaysian names
Mexican names
Muslim names
Nigerian names
Portuguese names
Romanian names
Russian names
Spanish names
Thai names
Vietnamese names
More Ethnicity...
Name Idea
Inspired by Nature
Cloud
Earth
Forest
Garden
Heaven
Moon
Nature
Ocean
Sky
Star
Sun
Water
Wind
River
Inspired by Emotions
Faith
Happiness
Happy
Joy
Lovable
Love
Loving
Merciful
Mercy
Smile
Smiling
Inspired by Gems
Diamond
Emerald
Gem
Goldy
Gold
Golden
Jewel
Ornament
Pearl
Ruby
Silver
Inspired by Birds
Bird
Eagle
Parrot
Peacock
Swan
Inspired by Plants
Leaf
Tree
Basil
Creeper
Tulsi
Inspired by Color
Black
Blue
Green
Red
White
Inspired by Animals
Bear
Camel
Deer
Elephant
Horse
Lion
Monkey
Serpent
Snake
Tiger
Tigress
Inspired by Time of day
Dawn
Evening
Morning
Night
Inspired by Royal Family
King
Kingdom
Prince
Princess
Queen
Royal
Inspired by Seasons
Season
Inspired by Body Parts
Heart
Mind
Eye
Inspired by Flowers
Champa
Flower
Garland
Jasmine
Lotus
Rose
Inspired by Warrior
Warrior
Weapon
Find Names
Names in fame
Parenting
Advise
Tips
Parenting Quizzes
Planning for Baby Quiz
Pregnancy Quiz
Baby Development & Behaviour Quiz
Post Pregnancy Quiz
Baby Health Quiz
Parenting Style Quiz
Family Time Quiz
Moms Presonality Quiz
Father prospective Quiz
Mother prospective Quiz
Partners Parenting Style Quiz
SIGN UP
LOG IN
Jelani Name Meaning
Jelani meaning
Name :
Jelani
Gender :
Masculine
Meaning of Jelani :
Used in country/religion :
African
, American
, Swahili
Rhyming Names of Jelani:
Aalani, Aelani, Ahlani, Ailani, Alani
Names Similar to Jelani :
Jela, Jelani Agyei, Jelal, Jelaluddeen, Jelaluddin, Jelaludeen, Jela, Jelanka, Jelanne, Jeladin
Popularity Rank :
Jelani name  was  top ranked at 932 position in American during year  1998and most recently ranked at 2613 position in American during year 2011
Name Jelani has been Common throughout the last hundred plus years and ranked at 4574 position. 3729 numbers of people were named Jelani so far in last 100 years. (SSA)
Jelani Numerology  :
Personality No.
9.
People with name Jelani desire love & independence. They love arts & music. They are generous, kindhearted, humane & philanthropic. Person with Jelani having 9 as Personality number love traveling & teaching but hate restraint. They are bold, functional, broadminded & spiritual. They have will power & are determined , but  are impulsive, contentious, ill-tempered, rebellious & impatient too.
More Numerology
More About Name :
Jelani
Jelani could also mean 'In Prison'. Jela in Swahili is a prison. When 'ni' is added at the end to make Jelani, it means 'In Prison.'
The meaning of the name is the literal translation in swahili. (mighty, great) also known as (mighty ruler)
The name is also found in Northern Nigeria and other areas with Afro-Arabic influence in Africa, Iraq and  Iran.
Name Analysis of Jelani
Character Analysis of Jelani :
Persons with the name Jelani, like to be in charge, whether that be upfront or from behind the scenes. They like to control and are generally quite sure of themselves. They can be very talented ‘actors’ in life and can put on the persona they wish others to see and believe.
Love Life of Jelani :
Person like that their partner should inspire not only sexually but also at the level of intellect. Persons love to precede intercourse with dinners in candlelight.
Name Letter Analysis of
Jelani
J : Persons make an exemplary friend and try hard to make sure everyone is happy and comfortableE : Persons are freedom-loving, sensual and enthusiasticL : Persons are very heady, and tend to over think rather than experience lifeA : Persons are their own person: ambitious and freethinkingN : Persons are a "think outside the box" kind of person -- creative and originalI : Persons are a compassionate person who feels things deeply
Astrological (Vedic) Aspect of Name Jelani
Acoording to vedic astrology , Rashi for the name Jelani is
Makar
and Moon sign associated with the name Jelani is Capricorn.
The name Jelani has Earth element. Saturn is the Ruling Planet for the name Jelani
. The name Jelani having moon sign as Capricorn is represented by The Mountain Sea-Goat and considered as Cardinal .
Normally, people with the name Jelani are optimistic and determined. They are full of life. They can easily compromise in difficult situations.
Other name options, having Capricorn moon sign are name starting with :
Ja, Ji, Ju,Khi, Je, Khu, Khoo, Jo, Khe, Kho, Jn, Jw, Jy, Kh.
Nakshatra (Vedic) of Name Jelani
The name Jelani is  suitable for baby born in
Sravana nakshatra
Sravana  Nakshatra:
Lord: Chandra (Moon)  Symbol : Ear or Three Footprints  Deity : Vishnu, preserver of universe  Indian zodiac: 10° - 23°20' Makara  Western zodiac 6° - 19°20' Aquarius
Other name options, having Sravana nakashatra are name starting with :
Ju, Khi, Je, Khu, Jo, Khe, Gha, Kho.
Famous Name Jelani
Jelani McCoy
is an American professional basketball player. A 6'10" power forward/center, he played in the NBA from 1998-2007 for the Seattle SuperSonics, Los Angeles Lakers, Toronto Raptors, Cleveland Cavaliers, Atlanta Hawks, and Denver Nuggets. He attended college at UCLA and high school at St. Augustine High School in San Diego, California.
Please suggest meaning of name Jelani in other country, history of name and famous personality with name Jelani or you like to put your any comment/suggestion on this name for other visitors.
About Baby
Faster breathing rate
Yes, the breathing rate of the new born baby is faster than that of an adult. The new born babies breathe for about 40 times per minute. This is around 2 times faster rate than that of an adult.
Laughing babies
Wondering what is this? Babies on an average laugh about 200 – 300 times in a single day. When comparing this figure to adults, they only laugh about 60 times a day. Probably that’s the reason you will see babies laughing just at about anything.
Self - awareness test of the baby
Performing the self - awareness test of the baby is quite simple. If you put a red dot on the baby’s forehead and show him the mirror, notice what he does. If they rub the dot, they are aware, else not.
No tears for the little ones
If babies don’t like anything, they will start making a shreaking voice and or crunch their face in a weird manner, but they actually can’t cry. Babies until few months old are not able to cry or take out tears.
Hearing not up to mark
When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.
What does the name Jelani mean? :
We have received lots of suggestion from our website users on baby names.
We are thankful for all the contribution on meaning of boy name Jelani. What does the name
Jelani mean in other origin if you know then please suggest. Further suggestion or detail on what is the
meaning of name Jelani. History of name and famous personality with Jelani
will help to update our database and other website users.
Name Of The Day
Justin
Someone who is just and righteous
The name is derived from the Latin words "istunus" or "iustus", which means "just".           ...
African Names Categories
African Baby Names
African  Boy Names
African  Girl Names
Popular African Baby Names
Cute African Baby Names
Unique African Baby Names
Parenting & Family Fun Quiz
Baby medical care, what to do and when to call a doctor?
What Kind of Support System Do You Have for Your First Year After Your Baby's Birth?
Which TV Dad Are You?
Baby Names Unsuited for Adults
Many baby names sound really cute when your baby boy or baby girl is still a baby. However, when your baby grows to become a pilot, a sportsperson, a scientist or even the president of your  country, it is an entirely different story. The noted tennis star of....
More..
English Names  |  Indian Names  |  Islamic Names  |  South American Names
African names | American names | Arabic names | Australian names
Celtic names | English names French names | Gaelic names |
German names | Greek names | Hebrew names | Hindu names
Indonesian names | Iranian names | Irish names | Japanese names |
Korean names |
Latin names Malaysian names | Mexican names |
Muslim names | Nigerian names | Portuguese names Romanian names |
Russian names | Spanish names | Thai names | Vietnamese names
Contact Us  |  Privacy Policy  |  Naming Tips  |  Baby Name Search  |  Parenting Quizzes
List of African baby names, African babies names, African baby names and meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this up to date list of African name as a reference to name your kid/child. This vast database of African names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site users and resources partners.
This information is developed to primarily serve as a reference. We are unable to respond on request for personalized assistance at the moment. Thank you for your support.
Largest list of African baby names with meanings, numerology, popularity and comments.
Cookie Consent
This website uses cookies or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalized recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our  Privacy Policy
Accept
© Copyright 2025 Babynology