10 Quantum Leap Trivia Quizzes  (Questions and Answers) | TV
Fun Trivia
Sections
Trivia Questions
Trivia Quizzes
Daily and Hourly Trivia Games
Ask FunTrivia - Get Answers to Questions
Crossword Puzzles
Trivia Questions Archive
Trivia
Animal Trivia
Bible Trivia
Brain Teasers
Celebrity Quizzes
Trivia For Kids
General Knowledge
Geography Quizzes
History Trivia
Hobbies Trivia
Humanities Quizzes
Literature Quizzes
Movie Trivia
Music Trivia
Famous People Trivia
Religion Quizzes
Science Trivia
Sports Trivia
Television Trivia
World Trivia
All Trivia and Quiz Topics
Services
Gold Memberships: Gift Certificates
Get Daily Email Trivia
Create a Daily Trivia Tournament
Pub Trivia Question Packs
Buy Trivia Questions
Large Scale Content / Data Licensing
Contact Us
New Player
Log In
New Player   |
Log In
FREE! Click here to Join FunTrivia.  Thousands of games, quizzes, and lots more!
Quantum Leap Trivia
Quantum Leap Trivia Quizzes
Home
»
Quizzes
»
TV Trivia
»
Television Q-T
10 Quantum Leap quizzes and  105
Quantum Leap trivia questions.
Play: Mixed 'Quantum Leap' Quiz
1.
'Quantum Leap'
Multiple Choice
20 Qns
An intriguing quiz about this short-lived but critically-acclaimed TV show. Tough, 20 Qns, TonyTheDad,
Jan 11 25
Tough
TonyTheDad
Jan 11 25
7608 plays
2.
Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 5
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
Here it is: my quiz on the fifth and final season of the cult classic, "Quantum Leap". A spoiler alert: if you haven't seen the last episode, the ending is discussed here. There were lots of new twists and turns in a very diverse final season. Average, 10 Qns, timence,
Jun 08 19
Average
timence
Jun 08 19
391 plays
3.
Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 2
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
This quiz covers the second season of the sci-fi cult hit show "Quantum Leap", which originally aired in the US from December 1989 to May 1990. Average, 10 Qns, timence,
Apr 14 13
Average
timence
386 plays
4.
Putting things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 3
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
The third season of the cult sci-fi hit "Quantum Leap" first aired from September 1990 to May 1991. Let's see how much you remember about this 22-episode season. Average, 10 Qns, timence,
Jul 13 13
Average
timence
324 plays
5.
Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 4
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
"Quantum Leap" Season 4 originally aired from September 18, 1991 - May 20, 1992. Let's see how much you remember from this, the penultimate season. Average, 10 Qns, timence,
Aug 24 13
Average
timence
307 plays
6.
Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 1
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
If you remember "Quantum Leap" as fondly as I do then this should be a breeze. This quiz covers the first short 9-episode season that brought us the time-travelling scientist and his faithful hologram companion. Average, 10 Qns, timence,
Feb 05 13
Average
timence
388 plays
7.
Guest Stars on 'Quantum Leap'
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
Some top named stars have appeared in 'Quantum Leap' - but did you spot them? Average, 10 Qns, ukmariner,
Jun 30 05
Average
ukmariner
3408 plays
8.
Tough Quantum Leap Quiz - 10 Questions
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
A quiz for those of you who love 'Quantum Leap' as much as I do. Enjoy! Tough, 10 Qns, LoraineMcFly,
Feb 21 06
Tough
LoraineMcFly
1958 plays
9.
Test yourself! Quantum Leap Quiz
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
This is about season 1 of "Quantum Leap". Difficult, 10 Qns, sariahcapri,
Jul 27 04
Difficult
sariahcapri
2320 plays
10.
'Quantum Leap' Guest Stars
Multiple Choice
5 Qns
What do these actors and actresses have in common? They have all guest-starred on different episodes of the television series 'Quantum Leap'. Average, 5 Qns, evilsandwich,
Feb 02 06
Average
evilsandwich
2976 plays
Quick Question
How many times each were Scott Bakula and Dean Stockwell nominated for Emmy Awards?
From Quiz "'Quantum Leap'"
4
3
1
2
Quantum Leap Trivia Questions
1. In the Season 5 "Quantum Leap" premiere, Sam leaps into various stages of a real person involved in the JFK assassination. Who does he leap into?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 5
Answer: Lee Harvey Oswald
This episode, titled simlply "Lee Harvey Oswald", is an extra-long, drama filled episode that pulls together a range of factual events from Oswald's life. The episode has several firsts, the main one being that Sam leaps into seven different timeframes of the same person's life, and not all in chronological order. The big reveal at the end of the episode is that Jackie Kennedy originally died in the assassination; so while Sam is unsuccessful in saving JFK, he is there all along for the purpose of saving Mrs Kennedy.
2. In the season premiere, "The Leap Back", what is different about the leap?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 4
Answer: Sam and Al have swapped places
Due to a lightning strike at the end of season 3, Sam becomes the hologram and Al is the person assigned the mission. It is indeed before Sam's lifetime (1945) but Sam is not the one who makes the leap. Al ends up saving the person he leaps into from being murdered; while in the 'real' timezone, Sam remembers he is married and reunites briefly with his wife.
3. The first episode of "Quantum Leap" season 3 is called "The Leap Home". Why?
From Quiz Putting things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 3
Answer: Sam leaps into himself as a teenager
This is in fact part one of a two part episode. While Sam's mission (according to Al, at least) is to simply win his high school basketball tournament, he also wants to fix a few other events in his life. This includes his sister marrying an abusive man, his father dying of a heart attack, and his brother dying in Vietnam. Sam wins the match and leaps out: into the Vietnam War alongside his brother (which begins part two).
4. In the first episode of season 2, "Honeymoon Express", Sam is attempting to save the life of a woman on a train, but at the same time a drama is emerging that puts the whole Quantum Leap project in jeopardy. What is happening back at home?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 2
Answer: The project's funding is being threatened
The removal of funding for the project would of course strand Sam in the past. But in a lucky coincidence, the girl he saves goes on to become the head of the board deciding whether or not to continue the funding, which she does of course.
5. In the pilot episode "Genesis", we meet Sam's best friend, Al, in hologram form. What is Al's full first name?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 1
Answer: Albert
Albert "Al" Calavicci is an Admiral who has been married 5 times. Being a hologram, he can only help the main character, Sam, by talking to him and showing him things (including how to fly a plane!). Al's habit of walking through objects disturbs Sam on several occasions in season 1.
6. In "Genesis", what does the girl that Al picks up say that Al is late for?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: his wedding
Al says, "I'd like to fix your flat tire, but..." and she replies, "but you're late for your wedding and that's your only tux."
7. A Portrait For ________?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: Troian
Deborah Pratt, or Mrs. Donald Bellisario, co-stars in this episode as Troian. Troian believes she hears her husband Julian speak to her; who has been dead for 3 years. Sam leaps in as Dr. Mintz, a parapsychologist there to determine whether or not Troian is insane. It turns out that Troian's brother Jimmy is the one trying to drive her insane and to get her to commit suicide by drowning in the same lake her former husband is in. Carolyn Seymour plays the part of Miss Stoltz, Troian's housekeeper who turns out to be a ghost. You might remember her as Zoe, the evil leaper's equivalent to Al.
8. Easy one first: Who starred as Gooshie?
From Quiz Guest Stars on 'Quantum Leap'
Answer: Dennis Wolfberg
Dean Stockwell was Al, Scott Bakula - Sam and Deborah Pratt was the voice of Ziggy.
9. Which 'Full House' star guest-starred in the episode 'Stand Up' (April 30, 1959) ?
From Quiz 'Quantum Leap' Guest Stars
Answer: Bob Saget
Bob Saget (Danny Tanner on 'Full House') played Macklyn 'Mack' MacKay in this episode.
10. In the episode "Leaping of the Shrew", Sam finds himself on a deserted island as Niko, who is having to put up with a very challenging woman, Vanessa. What is the surprising end that allows Sam to leap?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 5
Answer: They both remain stranded on the island
Vanessa is played by none other than Brooke Shields, who fits nicely into the role given her fame for the "Blue Lagoon", a movie about being stranded on a deserted island. The twist to the story is that Niko originally rescued both he and Vanessa given his navigational skills, but Sam's lack of these talents mean they have time to fall in love and stay on the island.
11. In the episode "Permanent Wave", what does the title refer to in terms the person Sam leaps into?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 4
Answer: He's a male hairdresser
Sam leaps into Frank Bianca, a male hair stylist in California in 1983. His quest is to save a single mother and her child, who witnessed a murder.
12. In the episode "What Price Gloria?", Sam leaps into someone with his own name. But what big surprise awaits him?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 2
Answer: He is Samantha, a girl
Sam's task is to save Samantha's best friend, Gloria, who commits suicide. Al has big issues with Sam's appearance as a long-legged blonde!
13. A Leap For _____?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: Lisa
Sam leaps in to a young Navy Ensign nicknamed "Bingo" in 1957. "Bingo" turns out to be Al who is charged with raping and murdering his commanding officer's wife. Sam unknowningly compromises the situation and Al is convicted and sentenced to the gas chamber on October 6, 1960. Before the sentence is passed, Al is replaced by co-star Roddy McDowall who plays Sengen (St. John), Sam's new connection to the future. According to Sengen, "Ziggy" is now called "Alpha" and Tina is married to Gushi. By episodes end, Sam finds a cigar in Al's car that did not belong to him. As it turns out, Chip, Al's wing man, is the one who used Al's car the night of the murder and accidently killed the commander's wife. Thankfully Al was around for future episodes!
14. Which Bond girl appeared in 'Star-Crossed'?
From Quiz Guest Stars on 'Quantum Leap'
Answer: Teri Hatcher
'Star-Crossed': June 15, 1972. Teri Hatcher appeared in 'Tomorrow Never Dies.'
15. Which 'Friends' star guest-starred in the episode 'Nowhere to Run' (August 10, 1968) ?
From Quiz 'Quantum Leap' Guest Stars
Answer: Jennifer Aniston
Jennifer Aniston (Rachel Green on 'Friends') played Kiki Wilson in this episode.
16. In the episode "Killin' Time", Al faces a difficult situation back in the waiting room involving the criminal, Leon Styles, that Sam has lept into. What happens?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 5
Answer: Leon escapes from the waiting room
Sam leaps into a strange situation: he finds himself in the middle of a hostage situation where he is the person with the gun. Sam succeeds in his mission to save Leon from being killed without a trial (and later, after changing history, he also saves the mother and daughter). But he can't leap until Leon is back in the safety of the waiting room, which Al finally manages to arrange. We see an interesting insight into the "futuristic" world outside the Quantum Leap project for the first time in this episode.
17. The episode "The Wrong Stuff" is something of a unique "Quantum Leap" episode. Why?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 4
Answer: Sam leaps into an animal
Sam leaps into Bobo, a chimp being tested for the chimp astronaut program. Sam's job is to stop Bobo (and other chimps) from being taken off the astronaut program and moved into the very dangerous (in fact deadly) helmet testing area. Sam escapes and saves the life of a man to prove Bobo's worth.
18. In the episode "Miss Deep South", what place does Sam achieve in the beauty pageant of the same name?
From Quiz Putting things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 3
Answer: First
Sam's mission on this leap is to save the career of a fellow contestant, who originally posed for nude photographs. At the same time, he has to maintain at least third in the contest to ensure the girl he leaps into, Darlene, can go on to college with the prize money. He surprises everyone (including himself) by winning the pageant!
19. In the episode "Good Morning, Peoria", what is the occupation of the man Sam leaps into?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 2
Answer: Radio DJ
Sam leaps into Chick Howell, a controversial DJ at an Illinois radio station where the local government are trying to ban rock and roll music. Chubby Checker makes a cameo appearance in this episode.
20. In the episode "Star-Crossed", Sam leaps into a university professor to save a troubled relationship. But he also attempts to change his own life by doing what?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 1
Answer: Reuniting his future fiancee with her father
Sam becomes Gerald Bryant, a university professor who is in a relationship with a student. In the original timeline, his student marries the teacher and it ends very badly. But Sam manages not only to convince her to marry her true sweetheart, but also to reunite Donna (his future fiancee) in an attempt to stop her from abandoning Sam at the altar.
21. How many doctorate degrees does Dr. Sam Beckett have?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: 6
In the episode "Star-Crossed", Al tells Sam that of his six doctorates, one of them is not psychology.  The three that he does name are medicine, quantum physics (obviously), and ancient languages.
22. Black On White On _____?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: Fire
This episode featured Sam as a Ray; a black medical student dating a white woman named Susan at the start of the 1965 Watts riots. Naturally Susan's policeman father nor Ray's brother Lonnie approve of the relationship. Lonnie kidnaps Susan and threatens to kill her if one more black person is killed in the riots and Susan's father plans her rescue. Although Sam convinces Lonnie to surrender, he's shot on the orders of Susan's father by a sharpshooter. Ray and Susan marry and stay in Watts to provide medical treament to those in need.
23. Which 'Beverly Hills 90120' actor appeared in 'Kamikaze Kid'?
From Quiz Guest Stars on 'Quantum Leap'
Answer: Jason Priestley
'Kamikaze Kid': June 6, 1961 Jason was a member of a school gang.
24. Which '3rd Rock From the Sun' star guest-starred in the episode 'Permanent Wave' (June 2, 1983) ?
From Quiz 'Quantum Leap' Guest Stars
Answer: Joseph Gordon-Levitt
Joseph Gordon-Levitt (Tommy Solomon on '3rd Rock From the Sun') played Kyle in this episode.
25. What stand-up comic occasionally played Gooshie, one of the projects technicians in the 'present'?
From Quiz 'Quantum Leap'
Answer: Dennis Wolfberg
Dennis Wolfberg was a very funny comic.  He appeared at clubs in Washington, Denver, Chicago, Boston, Florida and New York, and a representative said he was twice named America's top male comic in votes by club-goers and owners nationwide. In 1990 he won an American Comedy Award as best male stand-up.  He died in 1994 of skin cancer.
26. In the episode "A Little Miracle", Sam must persuade his Scrooge-like boss not to close down the Salvation Army mission. What helps Sam achieve this, with Al's help?
From Quiz Putting things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 3
Answer: His boss can see and hear Al
Sam and Al re-create the scenes from "A Christmas Carol" by showing Sam's boss (Michael Blake) the ghosts of past, present and future. In the process, it sparks a romance between Blake and the Salvation Army Captain (Laura) and they eventually marry.
27. In "The Right Hand of God", Sam becomes a boxer who is being paid to deliberately lose fights. What incentive does Sam have to train to win the big championship?
From Quiz Putting Things Right: "Quantum Leap" Season 1
Answer: The nuns need a new chapel
Sam not only wins the fight, but he pays off the people who are asking him to lose by betting big on the Ali-Foreman fight (which he knows the result of, having lived through it). The nuns get their new chapel and Sam leaps again.
28. How much money does Sam win betting on the Ali/Foreman fight?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: $48,000
Sam knew the outcome of the fight and had Dixie bet all of their savings on it.  The grand total came to $48,000: $20,000 for them, $20,000 for the church, and $8,000 for the mob boss.
29. The Leap Between The _____?
From Quiz Quantum Leap
Answer: States
Sam leaps in to his great grandfather who is a northern civil war officer named Captain John Beckett on September 20, 1862. Sharing his great grandfather's DNA, he finds himself in the barn of a Virginian woman named Olivia; who not only wants to turn him in to the southern army, but is also his future great grandmother with whom his argues with constantly. Not only does Sam win the affections Of Olivia, but also her slave Isaac, who is a part of the undergroung railroad. As it turns out, Isaac takes the last name of King because he felt like a king as a free man. It turnes out that Isaac is the great grandfather of Martin Luther King.
30. Which young actor appeared as a mob witness in 'Permanent Wave'?
From Quiz Guest Stars on 'Quantum Leap'
Answer: Joseph Gordon-Levitt
'Permanent Wave': June 2, 1983. Sam is a hairdresser and has to protect Joesph and his mother.
This is category 2402
Last Updated Mar 22 2025 5:45 AM
= Top 5% Rated Quiz,
Top 10% Rated Quiz,
Top 20% Rated Quiz,
A Well Rated Quiz
=
added recently,  = Editor's Pick
= FunTrivia Editor  = Gold Member
Teachers / educators:   FunTrivia welcomes the use of our website and quizzes in the classroom as a teaching aid or for preparing and testing students.  See our education section.  Our quizzes are printable and may be used as question sheets by k-12 teachers, parents, and home schoolers.
·  All questions, answers, and quiz content on this website is copyright FunTrivia, Inc and may not be reproduced without permission.  Any images from TV shows and movies are copyright their studios, and are being used under "fair use" for commentary and education.