Parents Primer on School Bullying -  Reader's Digest Canada - BY RICHARD B. GOLDBLOOM, M.D.
Top
X
Get Updates By Email
Expand All
Collapse All
Media Requests - CanadianCRC
Media Requests - 9am-8pm
7 days a week
Family Law - federal and provincial / terr.
Family Responsibility Office - Ontario Telephone Numbers
2010 Auditor General Ontario Report - Family Responsibility Office FRO
2012 Auditor General Ontario Followup Report - Family Responsibility Office FRO
Special Joint Committee on Custody and Access 1998
Fatherless Canada
Child Relationship Support
Enforcement of Court Ordered Parenting Time - Access - Visitation - JAIL
Child Financial Support
Collaborative Law and Social Workers
Children's Rights in Family Law
Spousal Support for Common Law Partners When they Had Their Own Residences
Naming Babies Children - Laws - Canada
Articles about Naming Children in Canada and the laws
First Nations - Child Rights Issues
Senate committee chastises Canada for its treatment of aboriginal children
Federal Court upholds landmark compensation order for First Nations children
Dr Cindy Blackstock O.C. First Nations Child Advocate Takes on Ottawa
UN Convention Rights of the Child (UNCRC)
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) (1989)
UN Declaration of the Rights of the Child (1959)
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child - 1st Optional Protocol - Children Armed Conflict - Canada's Reports
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child - 2nd Optional Protocol	- Sale of Children, Child Prostitution & Child Pornography
- Canada's Reports
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child - 3rd Optional Protocol	- Complains Mechanism
Canada's 3rd Report to the U.N. Committee on the Rights
of the Child - Due 2009
Canada's Report Involvement Children Armed Conflicts to
the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child - May 2006 - 42nd
Session
Canada's 2nd Report to the UN Committee on the Rights of
the Child 2003 - 34th session
Canada's 1st Report to the UN Committee on the Rights of
the Child 1995 - 9th Session
Government of Canada's
Plan of Action - 2004
UN Convention on the Rights of the Child - Application in Canadian
Courts
U.N. Study-Violence Against Children
Canada's National Child Day - Gov't Obligations to Educate
the Public
Fetal Rights and the UNCRC Scholarly Submission
Senate Committee - Child Rights Implementation
Senate Hearings on the Implementation of Child Rights in Canada
Interim Report of the Senate on Child Rights -"WHO'S IN CHARGE" - Nov. 2005
Final Report-Senate Hearings Child Rights -  Children: The Silenced Citizens
Female Sexual Predator Awareness
Female Sex Offenders / Female Sexual Predator Awareness
TV Documentary CTV - Female Sexual Predators - Sexual Assault of children
OPRAH TV Show - Interview Lisa Ling of female sex offender rapist- guilty of 15 sexual assaults - admits to over 100
OPRAH TV SHOW 200 MALE SURVIVORS SEXUAL VIOLENCE FEMALES RAPISTS
Female Teacher Sex Offenders - Student Sexual Assault and Rape
Canada's largest study sexual exploitation of street kids - 3 in 4 B.C. boys on street sexually exploited by women
Male victims of sexual abuse ignored for decades - denied services
FEMALE RAPISTS - All-woman rape gang kidnapped man, 23, and sexually abused him for three days
Mother drugged 13 year old daughter so she could be raped and made pregnant: police
Most mothers who sexually assault their children, get away with it.
News.com.au - Unspoken abuse: Mothers who rape their sons
Correctional Services Canada- For a variety of societal reasons, female sexual abuse is likely to remain unnoticed.
Lesbians trying to normalize - public acceptance of adult females raping girls - Vagina Monologues Play / Movie
Females sex trafficking other females
22 year old woman sex trafficking 15 year old girl
Karla Homolka - Child Killer and Sexual Predator
BBC - The Ultimate Taboo: Child Sexual abuse by women
Women & Men Reproductive Choice
About Pro-Choice
Parental Alienation -The Courts and What to Do
World Health Organization - WHO - Parental Alienation
Parental Alienation Overview
Parental Alienation Definition - Leading 80s Dr Richard Gardner
TV Shows About Parental Alienation
Newspaper Articles about Parental Alienation
Parental Alienation - Canadian Court Rulings
Parental Alienation Court Rulings - US and other countries
Parental Alienation Studies and Research
Books About Parental Alienation
Parental Alienation Awareness Day - April 25
Parental Alienation - Documenting The Evidence
Parental Alienation - Using a Parenting Coordinator
Parental Alienation Dos and Don'ts
Parental Alienation Research - Gordon, R.M. (1998) The Medea Complex
Certain Feminist Organizations Deny Parental Alienation Exists
Parents Who Fought Parental Alienation Successfully
Parents Relocate After Divorce - USA - Sanford Braver
Infanticide / murdering children
Murder / Homicide of Children / Youths - Statistics Canada
Mothers who kill their children
Infanticide - Criminal Code of Canada Offence
UN and Canadian Children's Rights Council position
Newborn Baby - Child - Teen Abandonment Laws - Stats
Child Abandonment Laws
USA - Unintended Consequences: 'Safe Haven' Laws Are Causing Problems, Not Solving Them.
American newborn baby abandonment laws and why Canada isn't comparable and shouldn't have them -COMING Feb 2023
CDC USA - Homicides Babies Context of Safe Haven Laws-Report 2020
Position Statement- Canadian Children's Rights Council on child / newborn babies Abandonment laws-COMING DEC2021
USA -Newspaper Articles About Newborn Baby  Abandonments
USA - Newspaper Articles About Teen Abandonments
Canada -Newspaper Articles About Newborn Baby Abandonments
Scholarly Submissions University &College
About
Submissions
Read Submissions
Paternity Fraud - Child's Identity Rights
HALF of Married Women Would Commit Paternity Fraud - Survey 5,000 UK Women
Child Identity Rights In Canada
Child Identity Rights - Frequently Asked questions (FAQs)
Baby Naming Case - Supreme Court of Canada
Paternity Fraud
CBC Sunday - TV Show on Paternity Fraud in Canada
Infidelity
NON-INVASIVE Prenatal DNA Paternity Testing 7+ Weeks
Paternity testing
Paternity Blood Type Chart - disprove paternity
Two Opposing Judgements on Paterntiy Fraud from Ontario Courts
Mandatory Paternity Testing Needed at Birth - Position Statement by the Canadian	Children's Rights Council
Liam Magill - High Court of Australia Paternity Fraud case
Paternity Fraud Lawsuit-UK-Richard Masson- Kate Mason- $435 Mill CDN
Paternity Fraud - Criminal Code of Canada
Finding your birth parents
Paternity Fraud - The stand in for Bio-DAD  - RCMP Officers - Obstruction of Justice
Children & Sex - Age of Consent
Age of Consent for Sex in Canada
Age of Consent Sex - History of Laws - 1999
Teen Pregnancies - Males / Females - Support
Children Having Children - Teen Pregnancies
Toronto Public Health Report on Teen Pregnancies
Child / Youth  Criminal Justice System
Youth Criminal Justice Act (YCJA) (2003) Read the Act
YCJA - History of the Bill, Briefs, testimony, Parilamentary
Transcripts
YCJA - Background Information- Canada's Department of Justice
Youth Criminal Justice
Youth Crime in Canada
Youth Jails in Canada
Supreme Court of Canada - Youths Charged as Adults - May 16,
2008
Canadian Children Living in Poverty
Child Poverty In Canada
Homeless Children in Canada
Aboriginal Child Poverty
Adoption and Human Identity - Birth Parents
Adoption News
Birth fathers ignored
Adoption Laws
Finding your birth parents
New Brunswick's Adoption Success
Butterbox Babies - Babies Killed - Sold
The Butterbox Babies-Babies Killed and Sold - Story
The Butterbox Babies Movie 1995
Butterbox Babies Book 1 - Bette Cahill
Butterbox Babies Book 2 - Bette Cahill - 15 years later (2006)
Butterbox Babies Book - Life After the Ideal Maternity Home - Bob Hartlen
CBC -Butterbox Babies' maternity home survivors still search for birth families
Corporal Punishment, Hitting and Spanking
Assaulting children to 'discipline' them - Corporal Punishment - Spanking - Hitting
Senate of Canada Bill s-251 to Repeal Section 43 of the Criminal Code of Canada allowing Corporal Punishment of Children
Experts-Child-Development-and-Law-Discuss-Bill-S-251-and-Repealing-Section-43-of-the-Criminal-Code-of-Canada-March2023.mp4
Children NOT spanked growing up have higher IQs - study North America's leading scholars on family violence
Canadian Paedriatric Society on Why Spanking Should Be stopped
Canadian Study - How Spanking Harms the Brain
Canadian Medical Association Journal CMAJ - Spanking Causes Child to be Aggressive
Parenting Experts about Corporal Punishment
Most Developed Countries Don't Allow Corporal Punishment of Children
International SpankOut Day April 30th
Canada-Wide Campaign to End Corporal Punishment of Children
Canadian Poll CBC on Spanking / Hitting Children - (unscientific) - 2012
Supreme Court of Canada 'Spanking' case - 2004
Supreme Court of Canada 'Spanking' case - 2004 - NEWS COVERAGE
INDEPTH: SPANKING in Canada: A timeline
Scholarly Submission - Cape Breton University - Stacey McDonald - The Issue of Corporal Punishment
UN Commitee Rights Child - Comment 8 2006 - Protection Degrading Corporal Punishment
Circumcision - Genital Mutilation - Male & Female
Circumcision / Genital Mutilation
TV Show - Rabbi Baruch Frydman-Kohl / Beth-Tzedec-Toronto
Position Statements - Medical Associations on Male Circumcision
Circumcision - Research Penis Foreskin Important Sensory Mechanism
Circumcision and Rights of the Child-fix
Child Abuse and Child Protective Services
Nova Scotia Home for Colored Children - Systemic Racism - Sexual
Abuse - Child Abuse - 1921-1989
Child Abuse / Neglect Overview Canada Statistics
Parent Abuse
committed by Youths
Hatred of Male Children In Canada - Boys Are Stupid T-Shirts
Shaken
Baby Syndrome
The Invisible Boy: Revisioning the Victimization of Male Children and Teens 1996 - Health Canada
Female Sex Offenders / Female Sexual Predator Awareness
Karla Homolka - Child Killer and Sexual Predator
Parental Alienation
Canada's Aboriginal Residency School
Bullying In Schools in Canada
Bullying - Info for Parents
Bullying Study Shows Canada has Too Much Bullying
Bullying in Ontario Schools / The Safe School Act 2009
Bullying in Ontario Schools / Parent Lawsuits Against Schools
Bullying by Girls in Schools - Female Aggression
International Child abduction - Hague Conv.
Hague Convention on The Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction - Order or Chaos
400 Canadian Children Abducted Yearly
Canadian Parliament Report on International Child Abduction
Royal Canadian Mounted Police Statistics on Child Abductions
Hague Convention Child Abduction Central Authorities in Canada
MP Larry Miller Lobbied Judge Hearing Child Abduction Case
Child abductors Often Make False Allegation And Lie To The Public About The Left Behind Parent
Canadian Court Orders For Custody and Arrest Mean Nothing
Hague Convention Child Abduction - Central Authorities in Canada
Nigerian Father Gets his Children Back from Mother Child Abductor - Abduction to Canada
Norwegian Government Helps Child Abducting Mother by Issuing New Passports
Education About Child Rights
Teaching democracy
BOOK - Empowering Children: Children's Rights Education as a Pathway to Citizenship
BOOK - Learning Child Rights with Mousewoman
UN - Rights of Persons with Disabilities - 2006
About the UN Convention for the Rights of Disabled Persons
Read the UN Convention for the Rights of Disabled Persons
Special Days of the Year - Mark your Calendar
April 25 - Parental Alienation Awareness Day
April 30th - International SpankOut Day
June 21st - Canada' s National Aboriginal Day
August 12th UN International Youth Day
November 20th - Canada' s National "Child Day"
- Gov't Obligations to Educate the Public
December 3rd - International Day of Disabled Persons
December 10th - Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights
Child Care and Early Childhood Education
Early childhood education and care
Corporate Early Childhood Education and Care
Newspapers Articles, Papers and Studies on Early Childhood
Universal Education of School Age Children
Ontario, Canada discriminates by publicly funding certain religious
schools
Grade school
University / College
Universal Child Health Care Services
Child Health Care
Misc. Topics Relating to Child Rights
Child and Youth Suicide Statistics for Canada
Anorexia
Nervosa ADHD-Ritalin
- Canada Children
Smoking - Lung
Cancer, Children, Youth and Teens in Canada
Child Rights - Organizations In Canada
Organizations in Canada - Child Rights
Anorexia
Archived Newspaper Articles About Child Rights
Newspaper Articles 2024
Newspaper Articles 2023
Newspaper Articles 2022
Newspaper Articles 2021
Newspaper Articles 2020
Newspaper Articles 2019
Newspaper Articles 2018
Newspaper Articles 2017
Newspaper Articles 2016
Newspaper Articles 2015
Newspaper Articles 2014
Newspaper Articles 2013
Newspaper Articles 2012
Newspaper Articles 2011
Newspaper Articles 2010
Newspaper Articles 2009
Newspaper Articles 2007
Newspaper Articles 2006
Newspaper Articles 2005
Newspaper Articles 2004
Newspaper Articles 2003
Newspaper Articles 2002
Newspaper Articles 2001
Newspaper Articles 2000
Newspaper Articles 1999
Newspaper Articles 1998
Newspaper Articles 1997
416-268-5448
Donate
About Us
Virtual Library of Newspaper Articles
Parents Primer on School Bullying
If the school says We dont have that problem here, dont believe it
Reader's Digest Canada, BY RICHARD B. GOLDBLOOM, M.D. , October 2001
In march 2000 an honour-roll student named Hamed Nastoh jumped off the Pattullo Bridge in New Westminster,
B.C. Hamed, 14, left a seven-page note that said he was killing himself because his classmates tormented him
with names like gay or faggot. He had never told his mother he was being bullied.
A few months later, on November 10, another 14-year-old, Dawn-Marie Wesley of Mission, B.C., hanged herself
with a dog leash in her bedroom. She too left a note for her family. It read: If I try to get help, it will
get worse. They are always looking for a new person to beat up, and they are the toughest girls.
If I ratted, there would be no stopping them. I love you all so much!
Most Canadians remember the tragic 1997 murder of Reena Virk, a high-school student whose battered body was
recovered from the Gorge Waterway, near Victoria. Her head and internal organs had been severely damaged by
a beating that rendered her senseless before she was deliberately drowned. One girl and a boy were convicted
of second-degree murder, and six girls were found guilty of aggravated assault. Her death is an example of
bullying taken to its ultimate expression. But even in its mildest everyday forms, bullying is about one
thing: the strong taking unfair advantage of the weak.
Bullying has been defined as the tendency for some children to frequently oppress, harass or intimidate
other children, verbally, physically or both, in and out of school.
It is not the minor behaviour problems that are a part of growing up, such as horseplay, occasional
good-natured teasing or even the odd physical scrap between children of equal strength.
The most common form is name-calling. Children call others names for many reasons: because the other child
is short or fat, is of a different skin colour, or has a lisp, a stutter or a physical disability. Maybe he
is a slow learner or wears clothes that differ from the run of the mill. Victims are often smaller or weaker
than average, or shy and insecure.
Boys bully more than girls, and the tormenting is Rmore often physical. Debra J. Pepler of the LaMarsh Centre
for Research on Violence and Conflict Resolution at York University has reported that 23 percent of boys
surveyed said they had engaged in bullying, compared to only eight percent of girls.
Among victims, however, both genders were equally affected. With girls, bullying often takes more subtle
forms, such as whispering campaigns, spreading rumours and shunningacts designed to destroy friendships.
This can be every bit as painful as physical aggression. Many parents are unaware that it is happening
because they never discuss it with their kids and because bullying is often a kind of underground activity
that many children wont report.
Most bullying takes place in and around school and is often reinforced by an audience. In one study, 120
hours of video surveillance in Toronto schools showed that in over 20 percent of bullying, peers actively
reinforced bullying by physically or verbally joining in the aggression. In 54 percent of cases, they
reinforced the bully by watching but not joining in. In only 25 percent of cases did peers support the
victim.
How common is bullying? Torontos Board of Education has documented that in grades 4 to 8, one child in five
was victimized periodically, while one in 12 was bullied weekly or daily.
Patrick mcniven* is a happy-go-lucky seven-year-old, now in Grade 2 at a small elementary school near
Halifax. His parents, Tracy and Kevin, say Patrick loves everybody and talks to everyone. But shortly after
starting school last year, Tracy remembers, Patrick started crying one night and said he didnt want to go
to school anyRead More ../p>
At first he would not tell me what the problem was. But with some coaxing, he finally revealed that an
older boy from Grade 2 (Jimmy) was spitting on him every morning in the bus. When Tracy told Kevin, his
first response was, Just tell Patrick to hit that kid!
But the following day, Tracy decided to speak to the bus driver about it. He wasnt much help. I cant see
everything that goes on, you know!
The next day, the boy spat in Patricks face again. Tracy approached the bus driver a second time. Finally,
he agreed to seat Jimmy up front, next to him. That lasted exactly one day, after which Jimmy was back to
spitting on Patrick again.
In desperation, Tracy decided to speak to Jimmys parents. The boys father met her on his front doorstep.
He listened for a minute, then said Patrick must have done something to deserve it. He then became
belligerent. He said it was my problem, not hisso I just walked away, thinking Jimmys father must have
been a bully as a child, because hes still a bully as an adult.
Frustrated, Tracy told Patrick that if Jimmy spit on him again, he should spit right back. He did, the next
morning, and Jimmy hasnt spit on him since. Tracy admits, I know it was probably the wrong thing to dobut
Im almost sorry I didnt tell him to spit back from the beginning.
What turns some children into bullies? Researchers, led by Kris Bosworth of the University of Arizona,
collected information from 558 students in grades 6 to 8, then divided the students into three groups: 228
who rarely or never bullied anyone; 243 who reported a moderate level of bullying; and 87 who reported
excessive amounts of bullying. Those who reported the most bullying behaviour had received more forceful,
physical discipline from their parents, had viewed more as violence and showed more misconduct at home.
Thirty-two percent lived with a stepparent, and 36 percent lived in a single-parent household. Bullies
generally had fewer adult role models, more exposure to gang activity and easier access to guns. This partly
explains why bullies need help as much as victims: Many learn their behaviour by example.
Bullies often want people to look up to them, and they try to achieve this by acting tough. Their behaviour
is usually initiated to create status for themselves. They are often unhappy in school, immature and
unpopular, but other kids may associate with them out of fear rather than friendship. In some, bullying is
part of an overall pattern of antisocial behaviour and rule breaking.
Many boys who have been bullies continue their style of behaviour in later life. As adults, they are at
increased risk for criminality, marital violence, child abuse and sexual harassment. Beginning in 1961, Drs.
Donald West and David Farrington of Cambridge University studied over 400 South London boys from ages eight
to 32. They found convicted delinquents had previously tended to be troublesome and dishonest in their
primary schools, only to become aggressive and frequent liars at age 12 to 14, and bullies at age 14.
Dr. Dan Olweus of the University of Bergen, Norway, an international authority on bullying, has found that
60 percent of boys identified as bullies in grades 6 to 9 had at least one court conviction by age 24. Over
time, compared to the general population, they had four times more relatively serious, recidivist
criminality than nonbullies.
How can you tell if your child is being bullied? Most schoolchildren wont tell you, often because they
are afraid of reprisals. But certain symptoms should make you suspicious. These include unexplained
reluctance to go to school; fearfulness or unusual anxiety; sleep disturbances and nightmares; vague
physical complaints (headaches, stomachaches), especially on school days; or belongings that come home
ripped or are missing altogether.
If you suspect your child may be a victim, its best not to ask the question outright. Dr. Sarah Shea,
director of the Child Development Clinic at the IWK Health Centre in Halifax, suggests: Ask your child
indirectly how he or she is spending lunch hour; or what its like walking to school, walking home or taking
the school bus. Ask if there are any children at school who are bullies, without personalizing it. And when
you meet with teachers, ask how they deal with conflict when it occurs. If you are certain your child is
being bullied, let the school know that you take it seriously, and ask what can be done to help.
Some parents find it embarrassing to learn that their child is being bullied. But a few simple rules make it
a lot easier to deal with:
- Be a good listener. Stay calm, and give your child plenty of time to tell you how he or she feels. Make it
clear its not your childs fault. Above all, dont suggest your child simply fight back. That may increase
your childs chances of further victimization. Some children are nonaggressive by nature, and you cant
change that.
- Dont overreact. Ask yourself, is this serious enough to discuss with the teacher? With the principal?
With the police?
- Help your child avoid the situations that expose him or her to bullying. If it occurs on the way to or
from school, find a safe route and arrange for an older child companion. Also, point out places the child
can go for help. Finally, let the school authorities know if there is a problem, and keep a written record
of incidents and who was involved.
What can a community do about bullying? Hetty van Gurp has more than 30 years experience as a teacher and
school principal in Halifax. Van Gurps son, Ben, would be 25 years old today had his life not ended
abruptly in an episode that changed her life. In 1991 Ben was an athletic Grade 9 student. He also had an
uncommon condition called neurofibromatosis, which can weaken blood-vessel walls.
Another boy at school had been picking on Ben for about a year. One day in the gym, he pushed Ben to the
ground. Ben collapsed and was rushed to the hospital, where emergency surgery showed that the main artery
that runs along the spine had been weakened by the neurofibromatsis and the force of the fall had caused it
to rupture. Despite heroic efforts, he died. Bens death turned van Gurp to thinking about aggression in
schools. With the help of colleagues, she wrote a proposal to establish an organization she called the
League of Peaceful Schools.
Among criteria for membership were a discipline policy developed with input from students, staff and
parents; programs that promoted positive social behaviour; and a peer-mediation and crisis-intervention
plan. It is essential, van Gurp says, for children to understand the difference between tattling (getting
someone into trouble) and reporting (being helpful). Its also essential that the school respond to all
incidents so that children and parents realize that the school really will do somethingnot just sit back
and make judgements.
So far, 170 schools in Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island have become members, and more are joining every
year.
In October 1999 the Halifax Regional Police launched Canadas first Anti-Bullying Hotline, the brainchild of
Const. Ian Burke, one of the forces community-relations/crime-prevention co-ordinators. Burke saw that
seemingly minor incidents of school-yard bullying were contributing significantly to youth violence in the
community. He set up the hot line so that students, parents or teachers could speak to a police officer
quickly, directly andif they wishedanonymously.
Participating officers carry cell phones and students are provided with fridge magnets and bookmarks with
the contact number. Phone calls are handled personallynever by an answering machine.
Burke and Const. Peter Myatt have now trained some 40 Halifax officers and volunteers in mediation for
intervening in a bullying situation. Since its establishment, the Anti-Bullying Hotline has received close
to 1,400 calls, and over the first year, some 350 individual mediation or conferencing sessions were held.
In considering a school for your child, you should ask the principal if it has an antibullying policy
and, if it does, how well it works. If you are told We dont have that problem here, dont believe it. The
problem exists in all schools.
School bullying is everyones business. It is unrealistic to expect it can be totally eliminated: We
cant eradicate the conditions that turn some children into bullies and others into targets.
But if everyone concernedteachers, school authorities, police, parents and childrenis truly committed
to zero tolerance, then there is solid evidence that the amount and the severity of bullying can be reduced
dramatically.
* The familys names have been changed to protect privacy.
Bully Tactics
Cindi Seddon, co-founder of Coquitlam's Bully B'ware program, and a teacher as well as a school
principal, recommends the following when your child encounters a bully:
KIDS
Stand straight and tall if faced with a bully; look him straight in the eye.
Be polite but firm. Tell the bully "Stop it, I don't like it. Leave me alone."
If at all possible, don't cry or show you are upset. Walk away if you can't hide your feelings.
Report events to an adult you trust. Expect action to be taken.
PARENTS
Contact your child's school, anonymously, and ask if there is a bullying policy.
Then, if assured your child won't be exposed to greater risk, inform them of the events that
transpired, including a date, time and place.
Follow up with school authorities. Ask what action has been taken and how your child will be kept
safe if his or her identity has been exposed.
Archived Newspaper Articles By Year
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
1997 and Before
© 2001-
- All Rights Reserved - Canadian Children's Rights Council - Conseil canadien des droits des enfants