Lindquist Studios - Woodturning and Sculptures
Mark Lindquist, Melvin Lindquist, Woodturning, Sculpture, Burls, Spalted Wood,
Art, Craft, woodturning,
wood turning, sculptures,  wood sculptures, burls, art.
.
.
.
.
.
.
ENTER
Mark
Lindquist, artist, author, sculptor, photographer
Recipient of the the American Association of Woodturner's 2010 Lifetime
Achievement Award, the American Craft Council’s 2007 College of Fellows
Award,
and the American Association of Woodturner's first POP Fellowship Awards
2006
"...Mark
Lindquist's
contributions to [the American woodturning] movement in terms of technical
innovations and reconsideration of the vessel as a sculptural form rich in
cultural and stylistic associations are so profound and far-reaching that
they have reconstituted the field....His generosity in disseminating his
ideas and techniques among great numbers of woodturners through carefully
researched essays on his ground-breaking discoveries and his basic primer
Sculpting Wood: Contemporary Tools and Techniques has had the net result
of making many of his pioneering feats regularly accepted practices.  Some
of his important technical innovations have received...a sweeping imprimatur
from the modern studio woodturning movement....In addition, his artistic
reconfiguration of woodturning in terms of Korean and Japanese ceramics,
oriental philosophy, and Judeo-Christian symbols demands investigation in
order to understand how he has transformed this genre into a metaphoric
discourse on the nature of being."
-
Robert Hobbs
Rhoda Thalhimer Endowed Professor of American Art History, Virginia
Commonwealth University
from  Mark Lindquist: Revolutions in Wood, catalog essay for
Lindquist's twenty-five year retrospective at the Renwick Gallery of the Smithsonian American
Art Museum, Washington, DC, March 15 - July 7, 1996
(Left) Photo of Mark Lindquist: John McFadden / Lindquist
Studios © 2005 | AAW Magazine Cover Courtesy American Association of
Woodturners 2010
(Right) Cover photo:  Totemic Triad, Totemic Series Sculptures at
Founder's Hall, Bank of America Headquarters, Charlotte, NC.  Photo:
Mark Lindquist