Programming Language and Compiler Research Groups
Programming Language and Compiler Research Groups
Multi-site working groups and projects are listed at the bottom.  Also
see this page of pointers to
online computer science technical reports.
AT&T Laboratories
The Bench++ Project provides an "official" suite of C++ benchmarks.
Brussels Free University,
Department of Computer
Science
Programming Technology Lab
research projects:
Agora project
Agora is a prototype-based object-oriented programming language
featuring encapsulated inheritance on objects.
OPUS project
OPUS is the theoretical counterpart of Agora.  The main motivation of
the OPUS
research project is to design an elementary calculus to express
object-orientedness.
It should model the crucial features of object-oriented programming in an
orthogonal way.
Carnegie Mellon University
The
Fox Project
Advanced languages and compilers for real-world systems programming.
(Served by the
The FoxNet Web Server, which is written completely
in an extension of Standard ML.)
Logical Frameworks at CMU
The LF logical framework
and its implementation in the Elf constraint logic programming language.
The MESS Project.
Semantics-based techniques for compiling advanced programming
languages
The
Principles of Programming (POP) Group
Applications of logic (including formal semantics and type theory);
techniques for designing and implementing programming languages;
formal specification and verification of hardware and software systems
The
Scandal project.
NESL, a data-parallel language with nested parallelism;
supercomputer compilation techniques, including
data representation and layout.
The
Venari Project.
Programming and specification language design, semantics, and
implementation; concurrent and distributed systems; databases and
persistent objects; software development libraries and
environments.
Chalmers University of Technology
The
Functional Programming Group.
Programming logics and the Martin-Löf theory of types; functional
programming languages, their use and implementation; process calculi
such as CCS; developing tools and methodologies for deriving correct
as well as efficient programs.
Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC)
Cambridge Research Laboratory (CRL).
Projects at the
Systems Research Center (SRC).
The
Extended Static Checking project
Projects at the
Western Research Laboratory (WRL).
DFKI, the German Research Center for AI
The Programming Systems Lab.
European Computer-Industry Research Centre (ECRC)
The
Facile Group.
Facile is a high-level, higher-order programming language for systems
that require a combination of complex data manipulation and concurrent
and distributed computing. It combines Standard ML, with a model
of higher-order concurrent processes based on CCS.
Glasgow University
The Formal Methods and Theory Group.
The Functional Programming Group.
Haskell language and implementation; state, input/output, and
concurrency; semantics based program manipulation; applications of
category theory and type theory; parallel functional programming;
functional languages for massive parallelism; using functional
languages for hardware specification, synthesis and analysis; large
applications of functional languages.
Hamburg University
The
DBPL Project.
DBPL is a type-complete modular database programming language that
extends Modula-2 orthogonally by a data type relation, access
abstractions, persistent modules and transactions.
The P-Quest Project.
P-Quest is a persistent version of the polymorphic programming language Quest.
The
Tycoon Project.
Tycoon is a polymorphic persistent programming environment for
the development of data-intensive applications in open environments.
Imperial College
The Logic Programming Section.
The
Theory and Formal Methods Section.
Includes an extensive
archive of research
papers related to theoretical computer science, category theory,
and logic.
Indiana University
The Programming Languages Research Group.
Infer, a statically typed dialect of Scheme; teaching with Scheme;
macros; memory management; scalable multiprocessor architectures for
applicative languages.
INRIA Rennes
The
MALI project.
Logic programming language design and implementation.
lambda Prolog.
INRIA Rocquencourt
The Charm Project.
Attribute grammars (esp. the FNC-2 system), program
analysis, compiler construction and generation.
Projet Cristal.
Formalisms of static typing for programming languages, and their
use in the design and the implementation of robust and efficient tools
for typed programming, including the Caml and
Objective Caml
compilers.
IRISA/University of Rennes
Projet LANDE
Implementation of functional and logic programming languages,
program analysis, program transformation, memory, management,
formally-based software engineering tools for declarative languages,
partial evaluation.
Projet COMPOSE
This group focuses on partial evaluation, a program transformation that
specializes a program with respect to compile-time or run-time invariants.
Kansas State University
The
Programming Language Semantics Group.
Stackability of functional and imperative languages,
computational aspects of classical linear logic, applications of type
theory, full abstraction and the applied typed lambda calculus PCF.
Kyushu University
The
Internet Prover Project
See a type assignment figure for the lambda-term you give, or see a
proof figure for the implicational formula you give, if the formula is
provable in intuitionistic logic.
Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
The
Declarative programming of Parallel Systems (PDP) group.
Implementation of declarative languages,
mainly on parallel computers; integration of parallel programming
primitives with declarative languages; lazy functional languages and
data parallel programming.
Microsoft Research
The
Program Analysis Group.
The value dependence graph IR, slicing of real (large) programs,
combined register allocation and instruction scheduling.
Melbourne University
The
Mercury project.
Mercury is a strongly typed logic programming language that
is also strongly moded and strongly deterministic.  It contains no
non-logical constructs (like cut) and, in particular, I/O is logical.
MIT
The
Computation Structures Group.
The
Concurrent VLSI Architecture (CVA) group.
Hardware mechanisms for fine-grained concurrent computing and
software techniques to take advantage of them.
The Programming Methodology Group.
Programming languages, distributed systems, object-oriented
databases and languages.
The
Programming Systems Research Group.
The
FX programming language and other topics.
The
Project on Mathematics and Computation (Project MAC).
Intelligent computational tools to help scientists and engineers
understand mathematical models of physical processes; special-purpose hardware
for scientific computation and programming tools for the
Scheme dialect of Lisp.
The Scheme Underground.
Developing useful software packages in Scheme for use by research
projects and for distribution on the net, based on the Scheme 48
implementation.
NEC
The
Programming Languages and Systems Group.
Advanced programming languages (Scheme), compilation techniques,
parallel languages, cache/memory system performance, etc.
Northeastern University
The
Programming Language Semantics Group.
Compiler correctness, verified Scheme implementation, machine
support for compiler correctness proofs, complexity of type inference
problems, object-oriented programming.
Ohio State University
The
Constraint Logic Programming Research Group.
Oregon Graduate Institute
The Pacific Software Research Center.
Generator-based program development, formal methods of program.
development, program transformation techniques, functional
programming, reflection, and algebraic programming.
The
Sparse Group.
Research in high-performance compilers: advanced analyses and
optimizations for high-performance computing, ranging from code
generation for superscalar RISCs to HPF support for MPP's.
The
Synthetix Project.
Applying incremental specialization to create operating systems
which are both highly modular and high-performance.
Oregon State University
The Leda Project.
Leda is a multiparadigm programming language that supports
imperative programming, object-oriented programming, logic
programming, and functional programming.
Oxford University
The
Hardware Compilation Group.
Compilation of
occam-like languages directly into digital hardware,
targeted to FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Arrays).
PRECC - Prettier Compiler Compiler tool.
This tool was developed from work on the collaborative REDO Project on
software maintenance.
The
Programming Research Group.
The Occam programming language, software and hardware
correctness, the functional programming language Orwell, and the 2OBJ
logical framework for theorem proving.
Penn State University
The
Programming Language Research Group.
Inferential programming with deductive systems,
verifying programming language implementations, and other topics.
Rice University
Center for Research on Parallel Computation (CPRC).
The Programming Languages Theory Group.
All aspects of advanced programming languages, including design,
semantics, implementations, programming environment tools, and
applications.
Russian Academy of Sciences
The mpC Project
Parallel languages and their supportive environments, aimed at
efficiently portable modular parallel programming, especially
for heterogeneous compuiter systems.
Rutgers University
The PROLANGS Research
Group
(Programming Languages) studies code transformation,
semantic analysis, parallel hybrid analysis, and other aspects for
writing and optimizing programming languages.
Stanford University
The
concurrency group.
Research in models of concurrent behavior.  Chu spaces.
The SUIF compiler group.
Research on parallel
programming languages, automatic parallelization, interprocedural
analysis, compiling for distributed memory machines, etc.
Sun Microsystems Laboratories
The Self Project
Papers on the Self language (a classless object-oriented
language) and on compiler optimizations for OO languages;
documentation and binaries of current Self system.
Swedish Institute of Computer Science
The Programming Systems
Group.
Constraint logic programming (CLP) and concurrent constraint
programming (CCP) languages and systems
(SICStus Prolog and AGENTS).  Constraint
solvers, parallel execution, program analysis and transformation,
compilation, memory management, applications to design and scheduling.
Technische Universität Berlin
The OPAL Project.
Design and implementation of an algebraic programming language
which amalgamates concepts from functional programming and algebraic
specification.
University of Berne
The Software Composition Group
Formal semantics of concurrent object-oriented languages; development
of models and languages to specify software components for open systems.
University of Birmingham
Papers from the Functional
Programming Group.
University of Calgary
Charity; a categorical programming language
Charity interpreter code, papers and a synopsis of ongoing work can be found at the charity home page.
University of Copenhagen
The
TOPPS group of DIKU.
Semantics-based program analysis and manipulation, including
partial evaluation.
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The
Concert group.
Concert is a compiler for a fine-grained concurrent object-oriented language.
The
IMPACT group.
Optimizing superscalar and parallelizing compilers for imperative
languages.
University of Karlsruhe
Martin Odersky's research group.
Formal methods for the definition of programming languages and the
design and manipulation of programs. Special areas of interests are
program calculi, type systems, semantics of programming languages, and
programming language implementation.
The
Modula-2* Parallel Programming Environment.
A high-level explicitly parallel imperative programming language.
University of Maryland
The Omega Project.
Frameworks, algorithms and software for analyzing and
transforming  scientific programs.
University of Massachusetts, Amherst
The
Object Systems Laboratory.
Compiler optimizations;
memory management;
memory system performance;
design and implementation of persistent programming languages;
persistent object stores;
information retrieval;
transactional memory.
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
The Proteus Project.
Specification, prototyping, analysis and generation of parallel
software.
University of Nottingham
The Functional Programming Group.
Design, implementation and application of programming languages
in general, and functional languages in particular.
University of Oregon
The
Programming Language Group.
All aspects of programming languages design, semantics, and
implementation.
University of St. Andrews
The Persistent
Programming Group.
Research in database programming languages.  Access to a number of
papers on persistence and the database programming languages PS-algol and
Napier88.
University of Technology,
Sydney
The
Shape Project in the
Algorithms and Languages Group.
Shapely Types are a new concept which advocates the
separation of shape and data. This has applications in the following
areas:
shape polymorphism and shapely types in programming
languages; shape analysis; shapely
parallel programming; application to scientific computation,
programming language design.
University of Trier, Germany
The
Fork95 compiler project
Fork95 is a parallel programming language for PRAMs that
covers many important parallel programming paradigms.
University of Toronto
The Holt Group
Object-Oriented Turing; software
engineering research; language, environment, and tools development.
University of Washington
The Cecil/Vortex project.
Cecil is a pure object-oriented language incorporating
multi-methods and predicate classes.  Vortex is an optimizing compiler
infrastructure for object-oriented and other high-level languages. It
targets both pure object-oriented languages like Cecil and hybrid
object-oriented languages like C++ and Modula-3.
The Constraint-Based Languages and Systems project.
Research on constraint imperative programming, constraint logic
programming, constraint hierarchies, constraint solvers, and using
constraints in user interface construction.
The SPIN project.
SPIN is an extensible operating system microkernel which supports
the dynamic adaptation of system interfaces and implementations
through direct application control, while still maintaining system
integrity and inter-application isolation.
University of Waterloo.
The Programming Languages Group.
Yale University
The
Functional Programming Group.
Implementation of Haskell; other topics.
The
Linda project.
Parallel and distributed
computing, adaptive computation, and parallel programming languages.
Multi-site research projects and working groups
Software Engineering and
Programming Languages
(SEaPL) Working Group
Established to foster communication between software engineering and
programming language researchers.
The Eli
project (at the University of Colorado and the University of Paderborn)
Tools for compiler construction in domain-specific programming
environments.  Automatic generation of translators, program
generators, analysers and interpreters.
The
IFIP Working Group 2.8 on Functional Programming
Established to encourage the exchange of information between
researchers in the design, implementation, and use of functional
programming languages.
The Larch Project.
Methods, languages, and tools for the practical use of formal
specifications.
The lcc
compiler project at Princeton and Bell Labs.
lcc is a retargetable compiler for ANSI C.  It generates
code for the SPARC, MIPS R3000 and x86.
The  ProCoS
Project.
This project and associated Working Group on "Provably Correct Systems"
is investigating program compilation in the  occam /
transputer tradition.
The
TallShiP project
at RAL (UK) and the University of Leeds (UK).
Research into models and languages for portable parallel programming,
shared abstract data types and optimisation through transformation.
Back to
the language research page
Additions and corrections are welcome!
Mark Leone (
mleone@cs.cmu.edu)