Comedian Lee Camp Asks Important Questions About The Police Response To OccupyWallStreet | Crooks and Liars
Support C&L — Go Ad-Free Today
Ad Free Login
CLTV
Follow us on Bluesky
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Mastodon
Follow us on Flipboard
CLTV
Follow us on Bluesky
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Mastodon
Follow us on Flipboard
My Ad Free Account
Support C&L
Go Ad-Free Today
Subscriber Login
Latest
Donald Names Failed Attorney Alina Habba As US Attorney For NJ
Fox Legal Contributor Reminds Host: 'Because It's The Law'
Fox News: Voters Will Be Happy To Suffer Pain Musk Inflicts
Comedian Lee Camp Asks Important Questions About The Police Response To OccupyWallStreet
In his latest Moment of Clarity video, "The Police Are On The Wrong Side At The Occupy Wall Street Protests," comedian Lee Camp questions the law enforcement officers that are working against their own interests in their response to the Occupy
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
By Kenneth Quinnell
— September 26, 2011
[oldembed src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8mIZszPyK78" width="420" height="315" resize="1" fid="21"]
In his latest Moment of Clarity video, "The Police Are On The Wrong Side At The Occupy Wall Street Protests," comedian Lee Camp questions the law enforcement officers that are working against their own interests in their response to the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York. While Camp's take on the issue is meant to be humorous, he's doing an important service in trying to raise awareness about the crimes of Wall Street, one of the key issues that the United States is dealing with.
The organization maintains an active web site where they keep people far away from the action informed of their resistance movement.  They say their mission is:
Our Mission
On the 17th of September, we want to see 20,000 people to flood into lower Manhattan, set up beds, kitchens, peaceful barricades and occupy Wall Street for a few months.
Like our brothers and sisters in Egypt, Greece, Spain, and Iceland, we plan to use the revolutionary Arab Spring tactic of mass occupation to restore democracy in America. We also encourage the use of nonviolence to achieve our ends and maximize the safety of all participants.
Who is Occupy Wall Street?
Occupy Wall Street is leaderless resistance movement with people of many colors, genders and political persuasions. The one thing we all have in common is that We Are The 99% that will no longer tolerate the greed and corruption of the 1%.
The original call for this occupation was published by Adbusters in July; since then, many individuals across the country have stepped up to organize this event, such as the people of the NYC General Assembly and US Day of Rage. There'll also be similar occupations in the near future such as October2011 in Freedom Plaza, Washington D.C.
For more information or to help support the resistance, contact information is below...
Where: Liberty Square (How to get there)
Donations: NYCGA Donation Page
Help & Directions: +1 (877) 881-3020
General Inquiries general@occupywallst.org
Press Inquiries press@occupywallst.org
Mail
The UPS Store
Re: Occupy Wall Street
118A Fulton St. #205
New York, NY 10038
Money orders only please, cannot cash checks yet. Non-perishable goods only. We can accept packages of any size. We're currently low on food.
Topics: #OccupyWallstreet, Lee Camp
Can you help us out?
For over 20 years we have been exposing Washington lies and untangling media deceit, but social media is limiting our ability to attract new readers. Please give a one-time or recurring donation, or buy a year's subscription for an ad-free experience. Thank you.
Become a subscriber:
To become an ad-free subscriber please select one of the following two options. Once you click your selected plan a window will open taking you to Admiral, our ad-free partner.MonthlyEnjoy ad-free browsing while paying as you go.Just $1 for the first month$6.99/month thereafterSelect PlanYearlyEnjoy a full year of ad-free browsing.$75.00/yearSelect Plan**Does not apply to Comments, YouTube or any other embedded service ads. View our Ad-Free FAQ for more information.
Make a donation:
If you don't mind the ads and would rather donate, please select one of the options below:
Kindest
Donate via PayPal
Via Snail Mail
payable to: Crooksandliars
528 Palisades Drive
Ste 548
Pacific Palisades, CA 90272
Explore more
Lee Camp: The New Pope Has Gone Rogue
Lee Camp
—
Sep 24th, 2013
Lee Camp: The Mind-Blowing Truth About War With Syria
Lee Camp
—
Sep 3rd, 2013
Discussion
We welcome relevant, respectful comments. Any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. Please refer to our Terms of Service for information on our posting policy.
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
What's Hot
'Yell Some More': Newsmax Pundit Goes Berserk Over Tesla Stock Losses
David Edwards
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Tulsi Gabbard's Head Did Exorcist-Spin Over DoD Signal Leak
John Amato
—
Mar 25th, 2025
No One's Mentioning All The Federal Laws They Just Broke
Susie Madrak
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Happening now
Trump's CIA Director Didn't Know Witkoff Was In Russia During Leaked Group Chat
John Amato
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Latest from Blue America
Virginia Endorsement Alert: Jessica Anderson
Endorsement: Saikat Chakrabarti For Congress
Dems Need Consensus— A Good Place To Start Would Be FDR... And Josh Weil
Help Make America Blue
Daily Newsletter
Our daily top picks right to your inbox
Email
Name
Sign Up!
© 2025 Crooks and Liars
Team
About Us
Contact
Terms of Service
Privacy
DMCA
Corrections
Mastodon