AFCU
Skip to content
――――――
Home
Meet The Team
History
Prayer Union
How can I pray?
How can I be prayed for?
Pray 4 Our Forces
Membership
Workplace Bible Study Groups
Events
Resources
Ministries
Men’s Ministry
Women’s Ministry
Family Ministry
Summer Camp
Giving
Resources
Printed Resources
Contact Magazine
Event Videos
Audio Resources
Video Resources
Combat Trauma and PTSD
Legacy Pack
Military Christian Organisations
Issachar
Issachar: Mentors
Issachar: Supervisors
Issachar: Intercessors
Safeguarding
――――――
Welcome
The Armed Forces' Christian Union (AFCU), is an interdenominational, tri-service fellowship of Christians who wish to grow in their faith and share it with those with whom they serve. It seeks to encourage and build up Christians in the Armed Forces in their faith and to support evangelism and does this by producing literature, providing prayer support for serving members, organising activities and teaching holidays and weekends, and by personal visits. It is funded only by its members and has a small paid staff based in our office in Watchfield, Swindon.
Our Mission
To encourage those who are already Christians in the Armed Forces to live out and develop their faith, to act as ‘salt and light’, and through them to encourage others to come to a committed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ;
To work for unity amongst Christians in the Armed Forces;
To support the Armed Forces in their drive to be a force for good, providing a Godly influence upon military culture;
And to expose the role of Christians in the Armed Forces to the wider Christian community.
We welcome all ranks, serving or retired, regardless of where you are in your faith.
We are a broad church and seek to prayerfully support each other.
Donate Now
The AFCU is a dynamic and outward looking prayer union, discipling a growing membership, upholding Biblical principles in the Armed Forces
CONTACT US
Unit 24 Shrivenham Hundred, Nr Majors Road,
Watchfield, SN6 8TZ
office@afcu.org.uk
01793 783123
Donate Here
Registered Charity Number: 1193977
Privacy Policy Click Here
Cookie Policy Click Here
Manage Cookie Consent
We use cookies to optimise our website and our service.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept cookies
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent