Kansas City Movers – Kansas City Moving Company – (816) 410 – 0658 | Premiere Kansas City Moving Company – 816-410-0658
Premiere Kansas City Moving Company – 816-410-0658
About All My Sons
Movers Rights
Relocation Glossary
Home
Kansas City Moving Links
All My Sons Moving Careers
All My Sons Moving Charities
All My Sons Moving Facebook
All My Sons Moving Linkedin
All My Sons Moving News
All My Sons Moving Online Booking
All My Sons Moving Reviews
All My Sons Moving Supplies
All My Sons Moving Television
All My Sons Moving Twitter
All My Sons Moving Wiki
Packing Supplies You Aren’t Using but Should Be
As professional Kansas City movers, we are often asked about items you already have around the house that can be used as packing supplies to avoid buying actual packing products. Our team of experts put together the following list of packing supplies you probably already have in your home. We hope this list helps you save money and time during your move!
Towels
That’s right, your daily bathroom and dish towels are perfect padding for added security and protection for your fragile items during a move.
Running out of boxes? Do you have any suitcases lying around?
Suitcases are perfect alternatives to moving boxes. You’ll have to bring your suitcases along for the move regardless of what you do with them, so fill them up to save a few bucks.
Garbage Bags
Garbage bags are not just for garbage. These durable bags are great for stuffing with clothes, shoes, or hanging items. They also work well as added protection from dust and dirt for clothes on hangers.
Plastic Bins
Plastic bins can be used not only just for storage but also work great as an alternative to moving boxes.
Twist Ties
Keep wires and cords organized with simple twist ties. You don’t have to worry about tripping over those pesky wires as you load the moving truck or spending hours untangling them when you arrive at your new home.
Socks
Socks are the perfect padding for your fragile items. Use rolled up socks to fill in spaces in moving boxes as added protection from fragile items bumping and breaking during the move.
These are just some of the many household items you already have that can be used as packing supplies. Call one of our certified packing consultants today and see what else you can use to pack and save.
Kansas City packing services
November 30, 2017
Pack Your Boxes Like Professional Kansas City Movers
Our professional Kansas City movers know a thing or two about packing cardboard moving boxes. At All My Sons Moving & Storage we use the highest-quality moving boxes on the market, but those moving boxes wouldn’t matter is boxes were improperly packed. If you are packing yourself, our experts have offered their top packing methods for your cardboard moving boxes.
First things first, you’re going to want to start with a layer of padding on the bottom of the box. Extra cushion never hurt anybody. After that bottom layer in your cardboard moving box, you’ll want to wrap the items your moving in newspaper, bubble wrap or dish towels to ensure security.
Once all your items have been placed in the box and it’s full, take packing peanuts, rolled up socks or balled up newspaper and fill in any gaps that may cause fragile items to move if your movers hit a bump in the road. If there is room once you go to close the box, add an extra layer of bubble wrap or dish towels before you seal it up.
Now that you have folded the top flaps of the box, securely close the box with moving tape. Do not use duct tape or scotch tape, we recommend specifically using moving tape. If you use anything else, you could risk your boxes opening. Tape the box closed and add packing tape to every opening and fold on the box. One piece of tape is not enough when it comes to meeting the standard of properly packing cardboard moving boxes like your Kansas City movers.
If you follow these steps, you’ll be packing like a professional in no time!
Kansas City packing services
November 21, 2017
A Moving Day Nightmare: Frantic Pets and Excited Children
Moving day is exciting for everyone, including your children and pets, but that doesn’t mean it should add to your stress of the move. We may have premium packing services, but we are not babysitters. To avoid the chaos that comes with having your kids and pets around during the move, hire a babysitter or pet sitter to watch your family the move. If you can’t get a babysitter in time, here are a few things our Kansas City movers recommend to keep your children calm and your pets in check on moving day.
During the packing process, set aside a pile of toys you know will keep your kids entertained. When it comes time for the move, set those toys free in a room that is already cleared out and let your kids play. You know they’ll be safe in the house and there will be nothing in the room for them to hurt themselves on or be in the way of movers.
As for your pets, set a designated point that you can connect their leash to at your current home as well as a location at the new one for when you arrive. In most cases this situation is for energetic dogs that can have some room outside to roam and you don’t have to worry about taking the dog out to “relieve” themselves. During the relocation from one house to another, use a kennel during transport so your pet is safe during the road trip.
We hope these tips come in handy during your next move. Feel free at any time to reach out to one of our Kansas City movers for additional advice and for a hassle -free moving quote today!
Kansas City packing services
November 14, 2017
Commercial Storage Units for Seasonal Businesses
Seasonal businesses, the time to act is now. Get ahead of the game and prepare for your offseason with the right storage units from your top-tier Kansas City Movers. As one of the country’s largest employee owned moving companies, we understand the challenges that can come with finding the proper storage for a business and its assets. You can count on All My Sons Moving & Storage Kansas City to ensure your storage needs are taken care of the right way.
At All My Sons Moving & Storage, storage is our specialty. Our storage facilities are the highest quality in the industry. As a business ourselves, we know that your company’s assets are valuable and require the best care and attention to detail to avoid damage. With our facilities and top-quality customer service, using storage from All My Sons guarantees an easy and safe experience.
Call us today to speak with one of our Kansas City movers about our commercial storage units. You will learn first-hand about the clean and secure units that we constantly monitor to bring peace of mind to all who choose AMS Storage. As a business, discretion and security are of highest importance when it comes to company assets. When you speak with one of our certified storage specialists you will be given all the details about our facilities. The more you learn, the more convinced you’ll be that All My Sons is the best choice for your business.
The right choice for your business storage needs is All My Sons Moving & Storage of Kansas City. Learn more today about our month-to-month storage options and how your business can save time and money when storing with us.
Kansas City commercial movers
November 7, 2017
What to Get Rid of Before Your Move
Your moving, great! You can finally get some cleaning done in that house of yours. Your Kansas City movers are here to tell you that cleaning and sorting through your old stuff goes hand-in-hand with packing during a move. You must decide between what will be making the move with you, what will be donated, and what will be thrown away. Then you can proceed to receive top of the line packing services from your Kansas City Movers at All My Sons Moving & Storage.
Dig deep in the closet and find all those old shirts that don’t fit anymore. As nice as they are, you haven’t worn them in five years and chances are there’s a few bad memories attached that you don’t need reminding of in a year from now. Besides, you can make some money off those bad memories, and host a yard sale to make a quick buck to assist in moving costs.
Plan your food shopping in accordance with your move date. Make a list and buy only the essentials and right amount of food. This will leave you with the least amount of food items to take with you during your move. Also, any food items which can easily be replaced just get rid of and start fresh. You don’t need to bring leftovers from last week’s dinner to stink up your new place within the first week of moving in.
For more blogs, tips and packing services, visit our movers blog. If you have any questions and need to speak with a certified moving professional call us at 816-410-0658.
Uncategorized
September 29, 2017
Relocating your Office to Kansas City
Relocating an office is difficult, but doable. As long as you have a set plan, and with the help of your Kansas City movers and everyone in the office, a corporate relocation can go very smooth. Here are some tips to help you survive a corporate move.
Have a meeting that includes all divisions within the office and determine point men that will head the move in each department. Throughout this process, regular meetings with the point men are of high importance to help stay on track and act as deadlines to achieve weekly goals for the move. Additionally, these meetings can be used for progress regarding who needs packing supplies, budget of the move, and if the help from other divisions is necessary.
When you are building your plan, it is necessary to layout a detailed timeline. Your moving an office, so start with packing the office supplies that will not offset any daily routines.
For example, if Johnson is making phone calls throughout his entire workday, it’s probably not the best idea to disconnect his work phone weeks before the move. Just a thought.
Since this is a corporate move, you cannot forget about clients. Assign an individual the task of contacting all clients about the move and updated contact information. You don’t want your clients paying you a visit in the coming months and showing up to an empty office.
For more blogs, tips and packing services, visit our movers blog. If you have any questions and need to speak with a certified moving professional call us at 816-410-0658.
Kansas City commercial movers
September 18, 2017
Avoiding Scams with Kansas City Moving Companies
As a family-owned and operated company we are here to help make your move easier, not steal from you. Unfortunately, there are moving companies out there that will try and scam you to make a few extra dollars. We want to help you avoid that at all costs. So, here are some red flags to help you avoid the scammers and feel secure during your move.
If you feel like a Kansas City Moving Company is low balling the estimate of your move, go in a different direction. Chances are they are pulling a bait-and-switch tactic. This is where you will receive a low estimate and on the day of the move the movers will tell you that the workload of the move is larger than originally discussed.
Over-the-Phone estimates: don’t do them. There is no way for someone to make an accurate estimate without seeing the inventory of the move. Any company that provides professional packing services will not solely rely on an over-the-phone estimate for a job.
Large deposits: don’t make them. Any Kansas City Moving company trying to pull large sums of money out of your pocket before doing a job is not a reliable source. Thank them for their time, keep your money, and move on.
Don’t be misled by phony companies. Far too often, scammers will take advantage of the individuals who aren’t researching for a move. Call their offices, check their address and legitimacy of the company. Don’t be another statistic.
For more blogs, tips and packing services, visit our movers blog. If you have any questions and need to speak with a certified moving professional call us at 816-410-0658.
moving tips
September 11, 2017
How to Pack Your Artwork
Packing artwork can be complicated and cost you a ton if you end up ruining that priceless painting that’s been passed down through your family. So, your Kansas City Movers are here to provide you with some important steps to avoid any mishaps with your artwork when you move to Kansas City.
Avoid packing peanuts as padding for artwork. Peanuts are known for breaking off into tightly wedged places and can cause separation between the frame and the artwork. Also, packing peanuts are made from potato byproduct or corn, and when in contact with too much moisture can permanently stick to items in your box.
Do not place rolled up canvas in a box with padding. Go to a local art supply store and purchase a cardboard tube to place the canvas in. This is the best possible protection for safe transportation during a move.
If you have pieces of art that are truly worth more than it costs you to make the move, hire a professional packer. Taking a chance on packing that yourself is not worth it when there are professionals who can do it with ease. If you feel like living on the edge, do it yourself and let us know how you went about dancing with the devil, other than that, leaving the heavy lifting to the professionals and their certified packing products.
For more blogs, tips and packing services, visit our movers blog. If you have any questions and need to speak with a certified moving professional call us at 816-410-0658.
Kansas City packing services
September 5, 2017
How Much to Tip Kansas City Packers
So, you’ve decided to enlist the help of a Kansas City packing services company – which is something that’s new to you. You will soon discover just how easy moving can be and how much of a difference packing services can make to your overall packing experience. Once you choose packing, there’s no going back!
But, as soon the as the packers begin to finish, you’re stuck with a sudden realization, “I have no idea how much to tip packers”. You are not alone!
Tipping is always a difficult situation because it’s not easy knowing how much to tip, who to tip, and when it’s appropriate to tip. Plus, there are plenty of guides on how to tip Kansas City movers, but no information on how much to tip packers. Rather than go through the agony of trying to decide that for yourself, we have created this quick guide to ensure you avoid any faux pas.
How Much to Tip Packers
If you prefer the flat fee model, tip each packer $20 – $30 for the entire job, depending how much they are packing which is up to your discretion.
If you prefer the adjustable rate tip method, then most would agree than 5% is a good standard; of which a portion of that goes to each mover.
Who Should You Tip?
Best practice is to tip each packer individually rather than tip the moving coordinator or foreman directly. Not only does it avoid any uncomfortableness between the packers, but it also allows you the opportunity to show your appreciation.
When is The Best Time to Tip?
Well it goes without saying that good service warrants a tip. Don’t tip for packing services if you don’t feel the service was good enough. No customers are ever expected to tip All My Sons Moving & Storage packers, so don’t feel obligated.
As for timing, treat packing services like any other service and wait to tip until after the service is complete.
Kansas City packing services
August 28, 2017
Tips to Avoid Moving Injuries
Moving injuries are the worst! As if moving was not already frustrating, all the bumps, bruises and cuts you get while moving can just make the whole moving process a little more unbearable. However, unless you’re hiring Kansas City furniture movers, then moving injuries are unavoidable.
Kansas City movers have had their fair share of moving injuries, and we don’t want anyone else to have to experience them! Here are a few tips to avoid moving injuries when you move!
Hire Kansas City Furniture Movers
The only sure-fire way to avoid moving injuries altogether is to enlist the services of a professional Kansas City moving company. That way, you can stay complete out of harm’s way. The Kansas City Furniture movers are equipped with the skills and packing products to avoid moving injuries and tough enough to take all the nicks and bruises.
Purchase the Right Packing Products
If you can’t afford Kansas City furniture movers then purchase the next best thing: Kansas City packing products. Most moving injuries can be avoided simply by using the right packing products, especially when moving heavy objects like furniture and appliances.
Moving dollies will prevent back injuries and cable ties will help you get a grip on the items you’re moving. Both are great investments.
Lift with Your Legs
Back injuries are common and completely avoidable. Remember to balance yourself with your back, and lift with your legs. A straight back today decreases the chance of a crocked back tomorrow.
Stay Focused
Usually a good night sleep, a healthy breakfast and a constant flow of water will help anyone stay focused while moving; that’s what Kansas City furniture movers recommend.
Keep it Close
Ensure that everything you move is close to your body, especially heavy items and furniture. This will allow you to maneuver with much more ease, avoiding bumping into walls, corners and experiencing the dreaded toe stub.
Kansas City Movers packing tips
August 21, 2017
Older posts
Archives
November 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
January 2017
December 2016
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
Copyright ©2014 All My Sons Moving & Storage, All rights reserved.