Bond Set For Sisters Charged With Murder In Fire Deaths : NorthEscambia.com
NorthEscambia.com
News for Molino, Bratt, Walnut Hill McDavid, Century & Cantonment
Home
News
Events
Features
Sports
About
Contact
Advertise
Free Classifieds | Obituaries |
Latest Headlines
Northview Chiefs Name Former Hurricane Doug Vickery As Head Coach
Updated: Two Injured In Highway 29, West Roberts Road Crash
Former Escambia Academy Headmaster, Head Coach Hugh Fountain Passes Away
Fire Heavily Damages Mobile Home On Pine Barren Road
Semi Hydroplanes Across I-10 Median, Causes Crash That Injured Three
Beulah Man Charged With Sexual Battery Of Teen Visiting Florida For Spring Break
Man Struck By SUV On Nokomis Road, Driven To Gas Station By SUV Driver
FWC Schedules Virtual Meetings On Black Bear Hunting Proposals
Century Basketball Association Hosts Annual Banquet, Celebrates Undefeated Teams
Molino Library Hosting Plant Swap
Bond Set For Sisters Charged With Murder In Fire Deaths
November 9, 2011
The mothers of three children who died in a house fire last week in Atmore were in court Tuesday afternoon where a judge set their bond at $300,000 each.
Akeevia Lajoseia Abner and Tekeevia Lajoseialan Abner, both 18,  were  arrested Monday for three counts of reckless murder of 3-year olds Aniyia Abner and Takia Abner, and 22-month old Michael Coleman. The women face up to life in prison on each count if convicted.
A State Fire Marshal’s investigation determined the fire on 1st Street last Wednesday night was caused by an unattended stove. Authorities say the mothers had left the children home alone while they were elsewhere in the neighborhood.
“They showed an extreme indifference to these children’s lives and  created a grave risk of death to the children by leaving them home alone  on November 2, 2011,” according to the Escambia County (Ala.) District Attorney’s Office.
Two of the children were found dead in a hallway while the third was found in a bedroom. And prosecutors said that a mattress was blocking the living room door.
Forensics evidence determined that three young children died from smoke inhalation, authorities said.
Funeral services for the children will be held at 11 a.m. Thursday at  the New Pleasant Hill Missionary Baptist Church, 1712 M.L. King Avenue  in Atmore.  The Rev. Dr. Harold Askew will be officiating.
For earlier stories about the fire, including photos from the aftermath of the fire Wednesday night, click here and click here.
Pictured below: The aftermath a fire November 2 in Atmore that claimed the lives of three young children. NorthEscambia.com photo, click to enlarge.
Comments
42 Responses to “Bond Set For Sisters Charged With Murder In Fire Deaths”
susan wallace on
November 13th, 2011 8:00 pm
unfortunately, these girls do appear cocky becuase they are.  it is not that they did not know right from wrong…it is that they are immature to the point that they could justifywhy it was “okay” to leave the babies at home, alone.  the babies were most likely at home, asleep, and since the moms are so young, they justified that since the kids were sleeping, that it was okay for them to “just leave for a few minutes” while they went to visit their friends.  they were just children having children.
429SCJ on
November 12th, 2011 3:20 am
150 years ago, this would not have been allowed to happened. The value of human life, has sure took a plunge.
roxy on
November 12th, 2011 3:01 am
They be lookin straight up gangsta’ in them mugshots!  They so cool!
Maybe they’ll get the death penalty, then they’ll really be gangsta!
teaching the system on
November 11th, 2011 9:39 am
The young girls being questioned are not missing the upbringing of parents or of one parent. They are being taught how to work the system of our own government. Money for having children, money for assistance of bills (power, gas,etc), money for groceries that our government gives to people like this from our own monies that most of us work for.  They are being taught at a young age how to rip off the rest of us and we are the fools for letting it happen. Years ago people would be immediately be responsible for leaving children up to the age of 15 home alone now its nothing to see people leave children in a running parked car, or a hot locked car while they run in a store. Our country is going to the bottemless pit.  We are at fault.  Welfare and assistance from our government should be on a limited time basis only.  This terrible event should never have happened, but on the other hand how do we know what other terrible events these children could have had to go through.  God took them for a reason.
Eric on
November 11th, 2011 8:54 am
In 1963, the 16th street  baptist church bombing in Birmingham,Alabama  killed 4 young girls. The killing was committed by hate organizations,In 2011 the crimes are still being committed, but by our own people, Some of which in the same manner. “The innocent blood of these young children should serve as the redemptive force that will bring new light to this dark city.” At some point we stopped teaching the basic principles and values to our youth and because of it, this happen. Hopefully the Prosecuter will find the Burden of proof for these young children and Justice will be served!!!!
TSmith on
November 10th, 2011 7:50 pm
I say put them in a house nail shut the windows and doors and flick a bic.Eye for an eye they didn’t seem to worried about their own children why let them just sit in jail and suck air.They should have to experience the same horrible death they put their children through.If laws were based on eye for an eye there might be less stories to read about like this.Hate to think of those poor kids trapped in a burning house.
for justice on
November 10th, 2011 2:53 pm
I was reading through the comments and came across a comment that really drives me nuts to hear.
Regardless of how these two young girls were raised, they know right from wrong. They had these children at a young age, yes but it doesnt give them the right to leave them home alone. Looking at their mugs, they do not look remorseful. They look cocky. Them poor children suffered in that fire and that is a disgrace. I hope they do get the dealth penalty. I also hope they get to sit in a cell all alone for years and think about the trauma them children went through.
What is our world coming to? We have soo many women that cant have children and soo many that can and do. Chidren are coming up missing or being hurt everyday and it always points back to the parents. This is so sad. I am at a loss for these children. An excuse is a cop out! Right is Right and Wrong is Wrong!
Terri Sanders on
November 10th, 2011 10:15 am
No remorse at all from their mug shots.Just the same cockiness we see so often when people get arrested.But they know that given their age and our judicial system,first time offenders,crowded jails and all that,they will probably get slapped on the wrist….too bad we can’t sterilize them before they are set free!
Char on
November 10th, 2011 9:13 am
Everytime this story has those pictures I can’t take the pain.  I just want to
tickle that little boy and now that will never happen.  The girls look just alike
same little nose, mouth, cheeks and eyebrows, you would think they were
twins.
May God reach out, tickle them with love.
just my words on
November 10th, 2011 8:04 am
hopefully they’ll get death–I just hope a lawyer will not try getting them off with the suggestion they can’t a fair trail
Duke of Wawbeek on
November 10th, 2011 6:27 am
When the prosecutor drops that burned mattress on the courtroom floor. The mattress that was used to prevent the toddlers from escaping that death trap house, I would imagine someone is going to be looking for a good vein in somebodys arms. A change of venue will not help, and Mr Johnny is now deceased. I wonder if their lawyer will have the good sense to take the deal? I doubt if any deals will be offered on this one.
429SCJ on
November 10th, 2011 4:32 am
There are a number of empty stores and buildings in Atmore. Maybe a child care center could be set up, so that when these urges arise, young mothers would have a safe place to deposit their children. It may just be as simple as identifying the catalyst for these behaviors and removing it from the enviroment, thus restoring order.
mommy of 2 on
November 10th, 2011 3:21 am
I have two children. I would never leave them home alone and they are in school. Not even if they were asleep to run to neighbors house. Anything can happen. I just can not understand this. Mug shots with perfect hairdos???? I would be a blubbering idiot if this had been my children…especially if I had left them home alone. How can they not blame themselves??? Unless, they intentionally planned for this to happen so they could have freedom from being a mom. If you did not want your children so many people that can not have children would have adopted them and given them a home. On another note…where are the dads? How are they dealing with this craziness? The grandparents seemed to care on the news, but how do they feel now that they know these babies were awake and moving around the house looking for mommies for help? Bless these babies they are in a much better place. These moms better not get off easy with this psycho system we have. I hope I get to serve on this jury.
just my words on
November 10th, 2011 1:32 am
no these girls do not need to get life behind bars, they need to be put in a burning house to die like the three little babies were, I would like to be the one to light the match.
Betty on
November 10th, 2011 12:09 am
If you saw the tv news of their arrest,they both acted cocky and like it was no biggy to be arrested…neither showed any sadness or remorse….HOPEFULLY THEY WILL BE IN JAIL UNTIL THEY ARE TO OLD TO HAVE MORE KIDS…….
a Mother & a Grandmother on
November 9th, 2011 10:26 pm
I feel so sorry for these babies.  Undoubtly they were unloved and unwanted.
I hope God can forgive the mothers – I don’t think I can.
Looker on
November 9th, 2011 7:15 pm
That right there appears to be the look of two  “deer in the headlights”.
I don’t think have yet understood the brevity of the crime in which they are charged.  Mark my word, they will see little or no jail time and will both have more kids before age 22.
ladytee on
November 9th, 2011 6:43 pm
this is a very sad situation. i feel the girls deserve to be punished , but not for the rest of their lives. this is 2 girls who had children at the age of 15, with no home training on how to raise children they truly were not ready to have children. there was no one their to guide them or help them. yes issue some type of punishment but also educate them. this is not the first time these girls left those children alone
some one should have step in a long time ago, these are children having babies before they are ready. it took a tragedy for the community to speak out where were they months ago.
judy smith on
November 9th, 2011 6:36 pm
for them to get any bond at all is horrifing   what they  did is awful   LEAVE THREE BABIES ALONE is a crime in itself  much less what eventually happened   then when you leave a child in a car there is headline news with only mininum punishment   WAS THE PARTY WORTH IT GIRLS?
uh?? on
November 9th, 2011 5:58 pm
Babies having babies..its a shame theres no reaction of remorse on their faces.shame..shame
rukiddingme on
November 9th, 2011 12:59 pm
I was thinking the same thing about the look on their faces.  Almost a smirk or grin.  We really do not have any idea what is in their minds, however.  Looks like you would see something there, know what I mean?  Look at the girl with the meth lab situation in Bratt, now she was showing some emotion on her face.  Right?  I was told they were down the street playing dice.
BIC (Believers in Christ) on
November 9th, 2011 12:56 pm
Prayers and thoughts go out to the mothers and the families of this tragic incident. Has anyone taken into consideration that these ladies are numb with grief, pain, remorse and regret.  That the expression on their faces is shock not emotionless.  The mattress in front of the door is puzzling.  Did the mothers go outside and pull the mattress in front of the door thru the window or how exactly did they get out the house?  Father God, please touch the family and keep them covered under your loving grace.
Dan on
November 9th, 2011 12:53 pm
Babies having babies.
One of the 18 year olds already had 2 kids!
Where the H*LL are their parents ??????
429SCJ on
November 9th, 2011 12:13 pm
Hello Bratt. I noticed their emotionless faces as well. When ever I look someone in the face, for some reason, my brain superimposes a pound or # sign over that face, I dont know why, but I look for the symmetry of emotion and I just cannot see it with these two?
bratt on
November 9th, 2011 11:20 am
As I said in the other posts….they didn’t care about thew kids and now all oh people that were saying these girls loved there babies well maybe now you can see for yourself. Look at their faces. What do you see? I see no grief, no pain
Gus on
November 9th, 2011 10:33 am
Wonder what the daddy’s of the 3 little babies have to say?
Dee on
November 9th, 2011 10:29 am
I do not know these two young mother’s and I do not condone what they have done. But some of the comments on here about their appearence in the above pictures that they are not showing any grief, remorse, sorrow, they don’t have blood shot / swollen eyes. I know for a fact that everyone of us handles grief and hardships in our lives different from everybody, some holds it in some people don’t. I am not a mind reader (wished I was) but I have to say everyone really needs to think before you speak. And only God and these two young mother’s know how and what they are feeling.
Safebear on
November 9th, 2011 10:20 am
JustMe – I agree with you. If there is a good thing here, the kids probably never knew there was a house fire unless someone in heaven told them what happened.
Another thing, I wish people would quit referring to them as “poor babies”. Yes, it is tragic but this may be the best thing to happen to them because the mothers didn’t care about them and they may have grown up neglected and abused so now they are protected and loved.
DJS on
November 9th, 2011 10:13 am
AKEEVIA needs to have that smirk knocked off her face…..what she and her sister did is beyond words. I can only hope that their bonds are NOT met and they are found guilty and sentenced to LIFE.
A Real Mom on
November 9th, 2011 9:59 am
One would imagine remorse, grief, and pain would be etched into their faces. Their facial expressions and body language show me two people who did not care two cents about those precious little ones. I expressed more grief over my dog dying than these two monsters! Charge them to the fullest extent of the law! No mercy for these two! Before anyone says, “Well, Jesus would give them mercy.” He will, and I’m thankful for the mercy He has granted me. However, they still have to be charged under the law. I hope these two will give themselves to Christ, but they must be held accountable for their negligence.
Concerned!!! on
November 9th, 2011 9:46 am
Pathetic!!! These two kids don’t deserve a bond! They deserve to be knocked in the head. May those babies rest in peace and comfort of the arms of Jesus. I’m so sick of hearing about these types of stories. Wasn’t there just another house fire in Atmore a few years ago that claimed the life of a small boy? What ever happened to his Mother? Did they decide whether or not he was left alone?
RB on
November 9th, 2011 9:40 am
Oh , they’re sad alright. Where’s that monthly check going to come from now. No more party……15 years……NEXT !
JustMe on
November 9th, 2011 9:14 am
The only positive thing I read in this entire article was the children died from smoke inhalation. At least we know they wasn’t alive as they burnt. I agree these 2 so called “moms” should get death fast.
justafact on
November 9th, 2011 8:48 am
hope they get death sentence.
Harley on
November 9th, 2011 7:53 am
Let’s see…… No swollen or bloodshot eyes, smirk on faces, and hair is in place perfectly. It doesn’t appear these girls have cried or lost any sleep, and I bet officers picked them up at the same house they were partying at while their precious children were taking their last breaths on earth. It’s hard not to judge someone who is incapable of making GOOD judgments for their children.
sick on
November 9th, 2011 7:47 am
in regards to:
“Any mom that lost she baby would not have this look on her face. Was the mattress in front of the door to keep the babies from getting out while the mothers were gone or was it place there with the intent to trap them while the fire was about to take place? Did these monsters plan this?”
I agree that they are monsters, but, my thought is that they put the mattress there so they wouldn’t get out to get to the stove that they left open for a source of heat.  Little good that did them if that was their intention.  These girls should get death, not life.
Thinker on
November 9th, 2011 7:23 am
Anyone who has ever taken a body language class knows these two don’t even begin to know how to care.
PensacolaEd on
November 9th, 2011 6:57 am
18 years old with kids up to 3 years old, means they starting breeding at  15. How are these kids raised?
Concerned mom of 3 on
November 9th, 2011 6:56 am
Any mom that lost she baby would not have this look on her face. Was the mattress in front of the door to keep the babies from getting out while the mothers were gone or was it place there with the intent to trap them while the fire was about to take place? Did these monsters plan this?
just my words on
November 9th, 2011 6:41 am
ok for all that were saying these girls loved their babies–take a look at these pictures, I myself do not see any grief, remorse, or sorrow,about what they have done, again I say burn in hell.
Indifference Continues... on
November 9th, 2011 6:18 am
From the look of their mug shots I would say that really don’t care what happened to the kids. And if that is the case I hope they put them under the jail.
nudo on
November 9th, 2011 5:11 am
I see Akeevia took the opportunity to give the ” I’m so hard” mug shot. They don’t deserve kids!!
Written by William Reynolds · Filed Under News
Copyright © 2007-2019 NorthEscambia.com · P.O. Box 1207 · Century, FL 32535 · All Rights Reserved.