FHWA - FAPG, 23 CFR 470A, Federal-Aid Highway Systems
FEDERAL-AID POLICY GUIDE
December 19, 1997, Transmittal 20
23 CFR 470A
OPI: HEP-11
SUBCHAPTER E - PLANNING
PART 470 - HIGHWAY SYSTEMS
Subpart A - Federal-Aid Highway Systems
Sec.
470.101 Purpose.
470.103 Definitions.
470.105 Urban area boundaries and highway functional classification.
470.107 Federal-aid highway systems.
470.109 System procedures--General.
470.111 Interstate System procedures.
470.113 National Highway System procedures.
470.115 Approval authority.
Appendix A - Guidance Criteria for Evaluating Requests for Interstate System Designations under 23 U.S.C. 139 (a) and (b)
Appendix B - Designation of Segments of Section 332(a)(2) Corridors as Parts of the Interstate System
Appendix C - Policy for the Signing and Numbering of Future Interstate Corridors Designated by Section 332 of the NHS Designation Act of 1995 or Designated under 23 U.S.C. 139(b)
Appendix D - Guidance Criteria for Evaluating Requests for Modifications to the National Highway System.
Authority: 23 U.S.C. 103(b)(2), 103 (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3), 103(f), 134, 135, and 315; and 49 CFR 1.48(b)(2).
Source: 63 FR 33351, June 11, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
Sec. 470.101 Purpose.
This part sets forth policies and procedures relating to the identification
of Federal-aid highways, the functional classification of roads and streets,
the designation of urban area boundaries, and the designation of routes on the
Federal-aid highway systems.
Sec. 470.103 Definitions.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, terms defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are used in this part as so defined.
(b) As used herein:
(1) "Consultation" means that one party confers with another identified party and, prior to taking action(s), considers that party's views.
(2) "Cooperation" means that the parties involved in carrying out the planning, programming and management systems processes work together to achieve a common goal or objective.
(3) "Coordination" means the comparison of the transportation plans,
programs, and schedules of one agency with related plans, programs, and schedules
of other agencies or entities with legal standing, and adjustment of plans,
programs, and schedules to achieve general consistency.
(4) "Federal-aid highway systems" means the National Highway System
and the Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways
(the "Interstate System").
(5) "Federal-aid highways" means highways on the Federal-aid highway
systems and all other public roads not classified as local roads or rural minor collectors.
(6) "Governor" means the chief executive of the State and includes the Mayor of the District of Columbia.
(7) "Metropolitan planning organization" (MPO) means the forum for
cooperative transportation decisionmaking for the metropolitan planning area
in which the metropolitan transportation planning process required by 23 U.S.C.
134 and 49 U.S.C. 5303-5305 must be carried out.
(8) "Responsible local officials" means (a) In urbanized areas,
principal elected officials of general purpose local governments acting through
the Metropolitan Planning Organization designated by the Governor, or (b) In
rural areas and urban areas not within any urbanized area, principal elected
officials of general purpose local governments.
(9) "State" means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, or, for purposes of functional classification of highways, the
Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.
Sec. 470.105 Urban area boundaries and highway functional classification.
(a) Urban area boundaries. Routes on the Federal-aid highway systems
may be designated in both rural and urban areas. Guidance for determining the
boundaries of urbanized and nonurbanized urban areas is provided in the "Federal-Aid
Policy Guide," [ The "Federal - Aid Policy Guide " is available for inspection
and copying as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7, Appendix D.] Chapter 4 [G 4063.0],
dated December 9, 1991.
(b) Highway Functional Classification. (1) The State transportation
agency shall have the primary responsibility for developing and updating a statewide
highway functional classification in rural and urban areas to determine functional
usage of the existing roads and streets. Guidance criteria and procedures are
provided in the FHWA publication "Highway Functional Classification--Concepts,
Criteria and Procedures." [ This publication, revised in March 1989, is
available on request to the FHWA, Office of Environment and Planning, HEP -
10, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. 3] The State shall cooperate
with responsible local officials, or appropriate Federal agency in the case
of areas under Federal jurisdiction, in developing and updating the functional
classification. (2) The results of the functional classification shall be mapped
and submitted to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for approval and
when approved shall serve as the official record for Federal-aid highways and
the basis for designation of the National Highway System.
Sec. 470.107 Federal-aid highway systems.
(a) Interstate System.
(1) The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways
(Interstate System) shall consist of routes of highest importance to the Nation,
built to the uniform geometric and construction standards of 23 U.S.C. 109(h),
which connect, as directly as practicable, the principal metropolitan areas,
cities, and industrial centers, including important routes into, through, and
around urban areas, serve the national defense and, to the greatest extent possible,
connect at suitable border points with routes of continental importance in Canada and Mexico.
(2) The portion of the Interstate System designated under 23 U.S.C. 103 (e)(1),
(e)(2), and (e)(3) shall not exceed 69,230 kilometers (43,000 miles). Additional
Interstate System segments are permitted under the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 139
(a) and (c) and section 1105(e)(5)(A) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation
Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA), Pub. L. 102-240, 105 Stat. 1914, as amended.
(b) National Highway System.
(1) The National Highway System shall consist of interconnected urban and
rural principal arterials and highways (including toll facilities) which serve
major population centers, international border crossings, ports, airports, public
transportation facilities, other intermodal transportation facilities and other
major travel destinations; meet national defense requirements; and serve interstate
and interregional travel. All routes on the Interstate System are a part of
the National Highway System.
(2) The National Highway System shall not exceed 286,983 kilometers (178,250 miles).
(3) The National Highway System shall include the Strategic Highway Corridor
Network (STRAHNET) and its highway connectors to major military installations,
as designated by the Administrator in consultation with appropriate Federal
agencies and the States. The STRAHNET includes highways which are important
to the United States strategic defense policy and which provide defense access,
continuity, and emergency capabilities for the movement of personnel, materials,
and equipment in both peace time and war time.
(4) The National Highway System shall include all high priority corridors identified in section 1105(c) of the ISTEA.
Sec. 470.109 System procedures--General.
(a) The State transportation agency, in consultation with responsible local
officials, shall have the responsibility for proposing to the Federal Highway
Administration all official actions regarding the designation, or revision,
of the Federal-aid highway systems.
(b) The routes of the Federal-aid highway systems shall be proposed by coordinated
action of the State transportation agencies where the routes involve State-line connections.
(c) The designation of routes on the Federal-aid highway systems shall be
in accordance with the planning process required, pursuant to the provisions
at 23 U.S.C. 135, and, in urbanized areas, the provisions at 23 U.S.C. 134(a).
The State shall cooperate with local and regional officials. In urbanized areas,
the local officials shall act through the metropolitan planning organizations
designated for such areas under 23 U.S.C. 134.
(d) In areas under Federal jurisdiction, the designation of routes on the
Federal-aid highway systems shall be coordinated with the appropriate Federal agency.
Sec. 470.111 Interstate System procedures.
(a) Proposals for system actions on the Interstate System shall include a
route description and a statement of justification. Proposals shall also include
statements regarding coordination with adjoining States on State-line connections,
with responsible local officials, and with officials of areas under Federal jurisdiction.
(b) Proposals for Interstate or future Interstate designation under 23 U.S.C.
139(a) or (b), as logical additions or connections, shall consider the criteria
contained in appendix A of this subpart. For designation as a part of the Interstate
system, 23 U.S.C. 139(a) requires that a highway meet all the standards of a
highway on the Interstate System, be a logical addition or connection to the
Interstate System, and have the affirmative recommendation of the State or States
involved. For designation as a future part of the Interstate System, 23 U.S.C.
139(b) requires that a highway be a logical addition or connection to the Interstate
System, have the affirmative recommendation of the State or States involved,
and have the written agreement of the State or States involved that such highway
will be constructed to meet all the standards of a highway on the Interstate
System within twelve years of the date of the agreement between the FHWA Administrator
and the State or States involved. Such highways must also be on the National Highway System.
(c) Proposals for Interstate designation under 23 U.S.C. 139(c) shall pertain
only to Alaska or Puerto Rico. For designation as parts of the Interstate System,
23 U.S.C. 139(c) requires that highway segments be in States which have no Interstate
System; be logical components to a system serving the State's principal cities,
national defense needs and military installations, and traffic generated by
rail, water, and air transportation modes; and have been constructed to the
geometric and construction standards adequate for current and probable future
traffic demands and the needs of the locality of the segment. Such highways
must also be on the National Highway System.
(d) Routes proposed for Interstate designation under section 332(a)(2) of
the NHS Designation Act of 1995 (NHS Act) shall be constructed to Interstate
standards and connect to the Interstate System. Proposals shall consider the
criteria contained in appendix B of this subpart.
(e) Proposals for Interstate route numbering shall be submitted by the State
transportation agency to the Route Numbering Committee of the American Association
of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
(f) Signing of corridors federally designated as future Interstate routes
can follow the criteria contained in appendix C of this subpart. No law, rule,
regulation, map, document, or other record of the United States, or of any State
or political subdivision thereof, shall refer to any highway under 23 U.S.C.
139, nor shall any such highway be signed or marked, as a highway on the Interstate
System until such time as such highway is constructed to the geometric and construction
standards for the Interstate System and has been designated as a part of the Interstate System.
Sec. 470.113 National Highway System procedures.
(a) Proposals for system actions on the National Highway System shall include
a route description, a statement of justification, and statements of coordination
with adjoining States on State-line connections, with responsible local officials,
and with officials of areas under Federal jurisdiction.
(b) Proposed modifications to the National Highway System shall enhance the
national transportation characteristics of the National Highway System and shall
follow the criteria listed in Sec. 470.107. Proposals shall also consider the
criteria contained in appendix D of this subpart.
Sec. 470.115 Approval authority.
(a) The Federal Highway Administrator will approve Federal-aid highway system
actions involving the designation, or revision, of routes on the Interstate
System, including route numbers, future Interstate routes, and routes on the
National Highway System.
(b) The Federal Highway Administrator will approve functional classification actions.
Appendix A
Guidance Criteria for Evaluating Requests
for Interstate System Designations
Under 23 U.S.C. 139 (a) and (b)
Section 139 (a) and (b), of title 23, U.S.C., permits States to request the
designation of National Highway System routes as parts or future parts of the
Interstate System. The FHWA Administrator may approve such a request if the
route is a logical addition or connection to the Interstate System and has been,
or will be, constructed to meet Interstate standards. The following are the
general criteria to be used to evaluate 23 U.S.C. 139 requests for Interstate
System designations.
The proposed route should be of sufficient length to serve long-distance
Interstate travel, such as connecting routes between principal metropolitan
cities or industrial centers important to national defense and economic development.
The proposed route should not duplicate other Interstate routes. It should
serve Interstate traffic movement not provided by another Interstate route.
The proposed route should directly serve major highway traffic generators.
The term "major highway traffic generator" means either an urbanized
area with a population over 100,000 or a similar major concentrated land use
activity that produces and attracts long-distance Interstate and statewide travel
of persons and goods. Typical examples of similar major concentrated land use
activities would include a principal industrial complex, government center,
military installation, or transportation terminal.
The proposed route should connect to the Interstate System at each end,
with the exception of Interstate routes that connect with continental routes
at an international border, or terminate in a "major highway traffic generator"
that is not served by another Interstate route. In the latter case, the terminus
of the Interstate route should connect to routes of the National Highway System
that will adequately handle the traffic. The proposed route also must be functionally
classified as a principal arterial and be a part of the National Highway System system.
The proposed route must meet all the current geometric and safety standards
criteria as set forth in 23 CFR part 625 for highways on the Interstate System,
or a formal agreement to construct the route to such standards within 12 years
must be executed between the State(s) and the Federal Highway Administration.
Any proposed exceptions to the standards shall be approved at the time of designation.
A route being proposed for designation under 23 U.S.C. 139(b) must have
an approved final environmental document (including, if required, a 49 U.S.C.
303(c) [Section 4(f)] approval) covering the route and project action must be
ready to proceed with design at the time of designation. Routes constructed
to Interstate standards are not necessarily logical additions to the Interstate
System unless they clearly meet all of the above criteria.
Appendix B
Designation of Segments of Section 332(a)(2)
Corridors as Parts of the Interstate System
The following guidance is comparable to current procedures for Interstate
System designation requests under 23 U.S.C. 139(a). All Interstate System additions
must be approved by the Federal Highway Administrator. The provisions of section
332(a)(2) of the NHS Act have also been incorporated into the ISTEA as section 1105(e)(5)(A).
The request must be submitted through the appropriate FHWA Division and
Regional Offices to the Associate Administrator for Program Development (HEP-10).
Comments and recommendations by the division and regional offices are requested.
The State DOT secretary (or equivalent) must request that the route segment
be added to the Interstate System. The exact location and termini must be specified.
If the route segment involves more than one State, each affected State must
submit a separate request.
The request must provide information to support findings that the segment
(a) is built to Interstate design standards and (b) connects to the existing
Interstate System. The segment should be of sufficient length to provide substantial
service to the travelling public.
The request must also identify and justify any design exceptions for which approval is requested.
Proposed Interstate route numbering for the segment must be submitted to
FHWA and the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Route Numbering Committee.
Appendix C
Policy for the Signing and Numbering
of Future Interstate Corridors Designated
by Section 332 of the NHS Designation Act
of 1995 or Designated Under 23 U.S.C. 139(b)
Policy
State transportation agencies are permitted to erect informational Interstate
signs along a federally designated future Interstate corridor only after the
specific route location has been established for the route to be constructed
to Interstate design standards.
Conditions
The corridor must have been designated a future part of the Interstate
System under section 332(a)(2) of the NHS Designation Act of 1995 or 23 U.S.C.
139(b).
The specific route location to appropriate termini must have received Federal
Highway (FHWA) environmental clearance. Where FHWA environmental clearance is
not required or Interstate standards have been met, the route location must
have been publicly announced by the State.
Numbering of future Interstate route segments must be coordinated with
affected States and be approved by the American Association of State Highway
and Transportation Officials and the FHWA at Headquarters. Short portions of
a multistate corridor may require use of an interim 3-digit number.
The State shall coordinate the location and content of signing near the State line with the adjacent State.
Signing and other identification of a future Interstate route segment must
not indicate, nor imply, that the route is on the Interstate System.
The FHWA Regional Office must confirm in advance that the above conditions have been met and approve the general locations of signs.
Sign Details
Signs may not be used to give directions and should be away from directional signs, particularly at interchanges.
An Interstate shield may be located on a green informational sign of a few words. For example: Future Interstate Corridor or Future I-00 Corridor.
The Interstate shield may not include the word "Interstate."
The FHWA Division Office must approve the signs as to design, wording, and detailed location.
Appendix D
Guidance Criteria for Evaluating Requests
for Modifications to the National Highway System
Section 103(b), of title 23, U.S.C., allows the States to propose modifications
to the National Highway System (NHS) and authorizes the Secretary to approve
such modifications provided that they meet the criteria established for the
NHS and enhance the characteristics of the NHS. In proposing modifications under
23 U.S.C. 103(b), the States must cooperate with local and regional officials.
In urbanized areas, the local officials must act through the metropolitan planning
organization (MPO) designated for such areas under 23 U.S.C. 134. The following
guidance criteria should be used by the States to develop proposed modifications to the NHS.
Proposed additions to the NHS should be included in either an adopted State or metropolitan transportation plan or program.
Proposed additions should connect at each end with other routes on the NHS or serve a major traffic generator.
Proposals should be developed in consultation with local and regional officials.
Proposals to add routes to the NHS should include information on the type
of traffic served (i.e., percent of trucks, average trip length, local, commuter,
interregional, interstate) by the route, the population centers or major traffic
generators served by the route, and how this service compares with existing NHS routes.
Proposals should include information on existing and anticipated needs and any planned improvements to the route.
Proposals should include information concerning the possible effects of
adding or deleting a route to or from the NHS might have on other existing NHS routes that are in close proximity.
Proposals to add routes to the NHS should include an assessment of whether
modifications (adjustments or deletions) to existing NHS routes, which provide similar service, may be appropriate.
Proposed modifications that might affect adjoining States should be developed in cooperation with those States.
Proposed modifications consisting of connections to major intermodal facilities
should be developed using the criteria set forth below. These criteria were
used for identifying initial NHS connections to major intermodal terminals.
The primary criteria are based on annual passenger volumes, annual freight volumes,
or daily vehicular traffic on one or more principal routes that serve the intermodal
facility. The secondary criteria include factors which underscore the importance
of an intermodal facility within a specific State.
Primary Criteria
Commercial Aviation Airports
Passengers--scheduled commercial service with more than 250,000 annual enplanements.
Cargo--100 trucks per day in each direction on the principal connecting
route, or 100,000 tons per year arriving or departing by highway mode.
Ports
Terminals that handle more than 50,000 TEUs (a volumetric measure of containerized
cargo which stands for twenty-foot equivalent units) per year, or other units
measured that would convert to more than 100 trucks per day in each direction.
(Trucks are defined as large single-unit trucks or combination vehicles handling freight.)
Bulk commodity terminals that handle more than 500,000 tons per year by
highway or 100 trucks per day in each direction on the principal connecting
route. (If no individual terminal handles this amount of freight, but a cluster
of terminals in close proximity to each other does, then the cluster of terminals
could be considered in meeting the criteria. In such cases, the connecting route
might terminate at a point where the traffic to several terminals begins to separate.)
Passengers--terminals that handle more than 250,000 passengers per year or 1,000 passengers per day for at least 90 days during the year.
Truck/Rail
50,000 TEUs per year, or 100 trucks per day, in each direction on the principal
connecting route, or other units measured that would convert to more than 100
trucks per day in each direction. (Trucks are defined as large single-unit trucks
or combination vehicles carrying freight.)
Pipelines
100 trucks per day in each direction on the principal connecting route.
Amtrak
100,000 passengers per year (entrainments and detrainments). Joint Amtrak,
intercity bus and public transit terminals should be considered based on the
combined passenger volumes. Likewise, two or more separate facilities in close
proximity should be considered based on combined passenger volumes.
Intercity Bus
100,000 passengers per year (boardings and deboardings).
Public Transit
Stations with park and ride lots with more than 500 vehicle parking spaces,
or 5,000 daily bus or rail passengers, with significant highway access (i.e.,
a high percentage of the passengers arrive by cars and buses using a route that
connects to another NHS route), or a major hub terminal that provides for the
transfer of passengers among several bus routes. (These hubs should have a significant
number of buses using a principal route connecting with the NHS.)
Ferries
Interstate/international--1,000 passengers per day for at least 90 days
during the year. (A ferry which connects two terminals within the same metropolitan
area should be considered as local, not interstate.)
Local--see public transit criteria above.
Secondary Criteria
Any of the following criteria could be used to justify an NHS connection to
an intermodal terminal where there is a significant highway interface:
Intermodal terminals that handle more than 20 percent of passenger or freight volumes by mode within a State;
Intermodal terminals identified either in the Intermodal Management System
or the State and metropolitan transportation plans as a major facility;
Significant investment in, or expansion of, an intermodal terminal; or
Connecting routes targeted by the State, MPO, or others for investment
to address an existing, or anticipated, deficiency as a result of increased traffic.
Proximate Connections
Intermodal terminals, identified under the secondary criteria noted above,
may not have sufficient highway traffic volumes to justify an NHS connection
to the terminal. States and MPOs should fully consider whether a direct connection
should be identified for such terminals, or whether being in the proximity (2
to 3 miles) of an NHS route is sufficient.
Home | Directives | 23 CFR TOC | Feedback
United States Department of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration