Agnes Browne Soundtrack (2000)
Soundtrack.Net
Soundtrack.Net
Search
Home
Release Dates
Movies & TV
Soundtracks
Recently Added
Manufacturers
Composers
News & Reviews
Trailer Music
Soundtrack.Net
Search
Register |
Login
Soundtrack Information
Agnes BrowneDecca Records (289 466 939-2)Release Date: 2000Conducted by Ed ShearmurPerformed byThe Irish Film OrchestraFormat: CD
Music From
Agnes Browne (1999)
Music By
Various Artists
Paddy Moloney
Purchase Soundtrack
Buy CD from Amazon.com
Track Listing
1.
Opening Theme - The Irish Film Orchestra
Get this album or track at:
2.
Banish The Blues
Get this album or track at:
3.
My Bonnie (Harp Version) - featuring Derek Bell
Get this album or track at:
4.
"She's A Lady" - Tom Jones
Get this album or track at:
5.
Paddy's Mazurka
Get this album or track at:
6.
Marion's Lament - The Irish Film Orchestra
Get this album or track at:
7.
Faith Of Our Fathers
Get this album or track at:
8.
"Delilah" - Tom JOnes
Get this album or track at:
9.
"The Last Rose Of Summer" - The Chieftains & Montserrat Caballe
Get this album or track at:
10.
Grab The Money
Get this album or track at:
11.
"My Bonnie" - Laura Smith with The Chieftains
Get this album or track at:
12.
"Puttin' On The Style" - The Fleadh Cowboys
Get this album or track at:
13.
Tripping Up The Stairs Reel
Get this album or track at:
14.
Marion's Lament (Reprise) - The Irish Film Orchestra
Get this album or track at:
15.
"It's Not Unusual" - Tom Jones
Get this album or track at:
Track lengths not available for this album. If you have track length/time information for this album, please e-mail it to us at mail@soundtrack.net and we will add it to the database.
Review: Agnes Browne
by Dan Goldwasser February 14, 20003.5 / 5 Stars
In Agnes Browne, director/actress Angelica Houston tells the tale of an Irish woman who deals with tragedy and hop in 1967 Dublin.  Composer Paddy Moloney, best known for his work on Two if by Sea, provided a sometimes lush, always upbeat dramatic score for the film.
The "Opening Theme" is beautifully performed by the Irish Film Orchestra, and has a warm lushness that is topped by a wonderful theme.  A more contemporary ensemble is brought together for the rather peppy "Banish the Blues".  A harp version of "My Bonnie" is rather simple and moving, and the bagpipes come into play with the moving strains of "Marion's Lament" and "Faith of our Fathers".
The knee-slapping energy of a small ensemble is present in such tracks as "Grab The Money", "Paddy's Mazurka", and the appropriately titled "Tripping Up The Stairs Reel".  The Chieftains make two appearances on this album, lending their skills and talents to the traditional "The Last Rose of Summer" and a very enjoyable arrangement of "My Bonnie".
Tom Jones features rather prominently on the soundtrack, and his classics "She's A Lady", "Delilah", and "It's Not Unusual" are included for our listening enjoyment.  These sound like the original recordings, and the energy and enthusiasm that Jones has in his performances are simply legendary and always a treat to listen to.
The album runs about 38-minutes in length, and is worth taking a listen to.  I do wish that there was a bit more score, as the dramatic cues really showed off Moloney's talent for scoring as well as Ed Shearmur's orchestrations.  This soundtrack might suffer the same fate as the under-marketed film and find a niche audience, but I hope that many people will take a listen - even if they haven't seen the film.
more reviews by Dan Goldwasser
Rate this Album
Click starsto rate.
Missing Information?
If any information appears to be missing from this page, contact us and let us know!
User Account
More Resources
Artists
Search
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About
© 1996–2025 Autotelics, LLC. All rights reserved.