'Tim & Eric's Billion Dollar Movie' Shooting with Will Ferrell & More | FirstShowing.net
⌕
HOME
TRAILERS
2025 SCHEDULE
2026 SCHEDULE
REVIEWS
EDITORIALS
INTERVIEWS
FEATURETTES
SHORT FILMS
ABOUT
ENJOY THE MOVIES
'Tim & Eric's Billion Dollar Movie' Shooting with Will Ferrell & More
by Ethan Anderton March 3, 2011Source: The Wrap
They've already stamped their brand of comedy onto Cartoon Network's "mature" late night programming Adult Swim schedule with their series "Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!" but now comedians Tim Heidecker & Eric Wareheim are now making their way towards the big screen. As a matter of fact, The Wrap reports the duo is already shooting Tim and Eric's Billion Dollar Movie, a comedy that will also feature appearances by Zach Galifianakis, Will Ferrell, John C. Reilly, Jeff Goldblum, Will Forte, William Atherton (Ghostbusters), and Robert Loggia (Independence Day). So what's the movie about?
Wareheim says the film follows he and Heidecker as they "literally get a billion dollars to make a movie, and we  make it, and  things go awry, and Tim and I just decide to get out of  Hollywood and  become businessmen in an abandoned mall." But Heidecker corrected him by saying, "Semi-abandoned mall. About 10 percent occupancy." This already sounds like it's going to have the same off-the-wall craziness that makes the duo's series such a hilarious trip. Heidecker also says this is definitely the biggest project they've ever worked on:
"It's definitely the biggest thing we've ever done in terms of scope  of the size of the production. Relative to other  films, it's tiny, but to us, it's the biggest thing we've ever done, the  biggest crew we've ever worked with and the most professional thing we've ever done. And the challenge is to fight against the  professionalism and keep things loose."
Along the lines of keeping things loose, when the producers were asked how much their movie was going to cost, they confirmed that it would be $1 billion. Along with the fact that this might be the first billion dollar movie (wink-wink), Wareheim also thinks it may set another record. The comedian says, "It's long past due, but this film offers the Academy the perfect  opportunity to award a best picture film to a comedy and maybe even  preemptively. I don't know how that works, but we could be looking at a situation where the Oscar is awarded before the film is released." Um yea, that sounds about right to me.
The question will be whether or not Tim and Eric's comedic style can last past the usual episodic spurts of comedy on Adult Swim. As someone who can enjoy a wacky series like "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" in small doses, the feature film just didn't keep the hilarity coming for an hour and a half. Of course with talents like Ferrell, Reilly, Galifianakis and Forte on board (all having appeared on Tim and Eric's series before), this could very well turn out to be a great comedy. What do you guys think? Is there any potential?
Find more posts in: Casting, Movie News, Opinions
16 Comments
1
Sweet! I love Tim & Eric
MC Tanner on Mar 3, 2011
2
Not the biggest fan of theirs.  I do take in some episodes here and there... not all of them are funny, just plain weird.  I doubt this will work in the box office.
Sweepy on Mar 3, 2011
3
They make my bubbubs bounce fer sure, but the idea of 90+ minutes of them/their antics might be a bit much....guess we'll see.
Voice of Reason on Mar 3, 2011
4
It's gunna cost 1 Billion dollars? Bullshit... are you serious?
Ethan, can you leave a respond to all of us? 1 Billion? Are you really serious? I want to know if this is for real. Like seriously for real.
Jon A. on Mar 3, 2011
5
Hahaha...no, they're being sarcastic. That's why I added the (wink-wink) bit in that same paragraph. Just a joke on their part.
Ethan Anderton on Mar 3, 2011
6
wooo Temple University Alum!
Nocsyn on Mar 3, 2011
7
Haha this will be amazing.  With that cast and the minds behind it we'll have no choice but to die laughing.
Nbachm on Mar 4, 2011
8
... i hate them both more then any humans on the planet
they have defiled comedy and turned it into a retardation
seriously if i could have 2 people killed it would be these men... ive been saying it for years
Anonymous on Mar 4, 2011
9
lol yeah I can't believe I even read this $#!8. lol leave me two bullits for the not funny brains. I mean, what's wrong with John C. Reilly, Will Forte, Zach Galifianakis, and Will Ferrell ? lol, looks like someone took the funny bones out. You should send them your bones.
Anonymous on Mar 4, 2011
10
You can't fully appreciate something unless you fully appreciate it.
Anonymous on Aug 7, 2011
11
Oh I can't WAIT see them drown in their own blood of there own bodies. If this makes any monie or anything, shoot me in the face please !
Anonymous on Mar 4, 2011
12
miss!
A5J4DX on Nov 13, 2018
13
miss!
A5J4DX on Nov 13, 2018
14
I'm not sure what the appeal is?  Show's aren't really funny and some are just weird.  Is that a genre weird humor?
!5AAK on Mar 9, 2011
15
T&E is like Miracle Whip.
Terry on Apr 5, 2011
16
found this article on google. movie is gonna rock hard. find it satisfying that most negative comments on here betray the writer's intellect via a lack of basic spelling. i'm out ^_^
Me Gusta on Aug 12, 2011
New comments are no longer allowed on this post.
prev
next
FEATURED POSTSVIEW MORE
FOLLOW FS HEREOUR RSS
Subscribe to our feed or daily newsletter:
Add our RSS to your Feedly +click here+
Latest posts now available on Bluesky:
◊— Follow @firstshowing.bsky.social —◊
Get the latest posts sent on Telegram
Your Privacy Manager
LATEST TO WATCHVIEW MORE
▶ Official US Trailer for 'Ghost Trail' Investigative Mystery Thriller Film (Mar 25)					 ▶ Teaser Trailer for Exorcism Horror Film 'The Ritual' Starring Al Pacino (Mar 25)					 ▶ Patricia Clarkson Stars in Fair Pay Activist Drama 'Lilly' Official Trailer (Mar 25)					 ▶ Extra Scary Full Trailer for 'Final Destination: Bloodlines' Horror Movie (Mar 25)					 ▶ Quick Behind-the-Scenes Look at 'The Legend of Ochi' Adventure Film (Mar 25)
Want emails instead?Subscribe to our dailynewsletter updates:
© 2006-2025 First Showing® LLC. All rights reserved.   Privacy Policy   |   Copyright Policy   |   Data Policy ➚   |   Members ➚