Edmund Emil Kemper Biography
Toggle navigation
Sign Up
|
Sign In
? HELP
study guideslesson plansbiosessayshomework helpBlog
Sign In
Edmund Emil Kemper Biography
This Biography consists of approximately 1 page of information about the life of Edmund Emil Kemper.
Get Edmund Emil Kemper from Amazon.com
View the Study Pack
Edmund Emil Kemper Biography
This Biography consists of approximately 1 page of information about the life of Edmund Emil Kemper.
Print
Word
PDF
This section contains 282 words
(approx. 1 page at 300 words per page)
World of Criminal Justice on Edmund Emil Kemper
Born on December 18, 1948, Ed Kemper is best known for his enormous size, intelligence, dark fantasies, and his ten serial murders and necrophilic acts. As of 2000, he was serving multiple, consecutive life terms at the California Sate Medical Facility in Vacaville.Throughout childhood, Kemper had a chronically abrasive relationship with his authoritative mother. He was always excessively large for his age, and as an adolescent he began experiencing fantasies of killing his mother and having intercourse with corpses. After running away at the age of 13, Kemper was sent to live with his grandparents whom he shot and killed. He spent the next five years in mental institutions and was eventually released to live with his mother.As an adult, Kemper was six foot nine and nearly 300 pounds. In the spring 1972, he started acting out his murderous fantasies by picking up college-age female hitchhikers in the Santa Cruz area, killing them, having sex with their corpses and dismembering them. He reported being motivated by a desire to possess the souls of his victims. To prevent authorities from identifying the remains of his victims Kemper disposed of their body parts and clothing in disparate areas.Curiously, at the same time Kemper was murdering people, his juvenile records were permanently expunged after two psychiatrists agreed that he was in good mental heath and was no longer a threat to himself or society. Kemper eventually killed his mother by striking her in the head with a claw hammer while she slept. He removed her larynx with a pocketknife and discarded it in a garbage disposal unit. He also killed and beheaded a close friend of his mother's before calling authorities and confessing to his crimes.
This section contains 282 words
(approx. 1 page at 300 words per page)
More summaries and resources for teaching or studying Edmund Emil Kemper.
Browse all BookRags Study Guides.
Copyrights
Edmund Emil Kemper from Gale. ©2005-2006 Thomson Gale, a part of the Thomson Corporation. All rights reserved.
BookRags
About BookRags |
Customer Service |
Terms of Service |
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2025 by BookRags, Inc.
FOLLOW BOOKRAGS: