California State Railroad Museum Point of Interest
About Us
Contact Us
FAQs
Translate
Home
About Us
Contact Us
PRA Request
Parks Director
Public Notices
Accessibility and Parks
Organizational Structure Opportunities.
Off-Highway Motor Vehicle Recreation Division
Office of Historic Preservation
Division of Boating and Waterways
Commissions
Find a Park
Reservations and Fees
Passes
Sales Dates
Camping Information
Historic Sites
Safety Tips
Rules and Regulations
Dogs in Parks
Travel Tips
Maps
Park Events
Live Video Gallery
Weddings at State Parks
Filming & Photography
What's New
Parks Newsroom
Parks Blog
Significant Incidents Updates
Frequently Asked Questions
Jobs
Job Postings
Exam Announcements
Careers
Now Recruiting
Seasonal and Part Time
Law Enforcement Careers
Volunteers
Parks Hosts
Students
Programs
Grants
Commissions
Park Management
Outdoors for All
Planning for a Changing Landscape
Outdoor Youth Connection
FamCamp
Outdoor Recreation Leadership
Boating Safety
Kids Outdoors
EV Charging
Explore
PORTS
Cultural Resources
Natural Resources
Interpretive Programs
Summer for Kids
Educators
Community Involvement
California State Railroad Museum Point of Interest
Additional Reservation Information
×
Other reservations are available for Adult Group Tours and School Field Trips.
Close
Reservations
Additional Reservation Info
Park Info
News and Events
Passes Information
Activities
Facilities
Brochures
Directions
Contact Number
(916) 323-9280
Park Accessibility Information
View the Park Accessibility Information
Park Hours
Museum Hours: 10:00 am - 5:00 pmTickets sold until 4:30 p.m. Closed Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day Train Operating Hours: Departures run April through September from the Central Pacific Passenger Station at Front & “K” Streets. Visit the Excursion Train Ride page for the up-to-date schedule.
Passes Information
List of California State Park Passes
Park Activities
Are Dogs Allowed?
Yes
Dogs allowed in exterior portions of railroad displays only. Services animals are allowed in the Museum and on excursion trains.
Day-Use Activities & Facilities
Historical/Cultural Site
Env. Learning/Visitor Center
Exhibits and Programs
Guided Tours
Interpretive Exhibits
Museums
Family Programs
Park Facilities
EV Information
E-Bike Locations
EV Charger Locations
Other Facilities & Visitor Information
Camp Store
Restrooms
Drinking Water Available
Brochures
Historic Sites Visitor Guide
Park Brochure
Translations of Our Lives Are Made of Railroad Stories
Park Directions
Get directions through Google Maps
From San Francisco/East Bay/FairfieldTake Interstate Highway 80-East to West Sacramento. At the I-80/Business 80 split, follow Business 80 to Downtown Sacramento, then as the freeway climbs up over the Sacramento River, take the Interstate Highway 5-North exit. Exit at "J" Street (a one-way, eastbound street) and go two blocks to Fifth Street. Turn left, then turn left again at "I" Street. Follow the large overhead signs to "Old Sacramento/Railroad Museum."From Modesto/Stockton/Lodi Take Highway 99-North to Sacramento. Follow Highway 99 through two freeway intersections in Sacramento (Highway 99/Highway 50/Business 80, then Business 80/Highway 99/Interstate Highway 5). You will end up headed north on Interstate Highway 5/Highway 99 in downtown Sacramento. Exit at "J" Street (a one-way, eastbound street) and go two blocks to Fifth Street. Turn left, then turn left again at "I" Street. Follow the large overhead signs to "Old Sacramento/Railroad Museum."From Reno/Auburn/RosevilleTake Interstate Highway 80-West to Interstate Highway 5-South. Follow I-5 south to downtown Sacramento. Exit at "J" Street (a one-way, eastbound stree t) and go two blocks to Fifth Street. Turn left, then turn left again at "I" Street. Follow the large overhead signs to "Old Sacramento/Railroad Museum."From South Lake Tahoe/Placerville Take Highway 50-West to Sacramento. Continue west on Highway 50/Business 80 to Interstate Highway 5-North and downtown Sacramento. Almost as soon as you join I-5, you will be exiting. Exit at "J" Street (a one-way, eastbound street) and go two blocks to Fifth Street. Turn left, then turn left again at "I" Street. Follow the large overhead signs to "Old Sacramento/Railroad Museum." From Redding/Chico/MarysvilleHead south on Highway 99 or Interstate Highway 5 to Sacramento. The two highways join together just a few miles north of Sacramento, near Sacramento International Airport. Continue south to downtown Sacramento. Exit at "J" Street (a one-way, eastbound street) and go two blocks to Fifth Street. Turn left, then turn left again at "I" Street. Follow the large overhead signs to "Old Sacramento/Railroad Museum."Parking TipsOn-street, metered parking in Old Sacramento is for short durations only (90 minutes maximum) and the limited amount of spaces generally fill up early. We recommend instead that guests utilize the public parking garages located at either end of Old Sacramento. Parking validations are available from a variety of Old Sacramento restaurants and merchants. The California State Railroad Museum does not offer parking validations. For more information on parking, visit SacPark.orgBy AmtrakComing from outside Sacramento? Take the Capitol Corridor train to the Sacramento Valley Amtrak Station, which is a short and easy walk to the California State Railroad Museum. Up to 30 trains a day serve the station – enjoy on board wi-fi, Café Car service, spacious seating, and beautiful views while you ride. For more info and to book, visit www.capitolcorridor.org.
Upcoming Events
All Events for California State Railroad Museum Point of Interest
Most Recent News Releases
4/19/23: California State Parks Encourages Californians to Invest More Time in the Outdoors on Earth Day
All News Releases for California State Railroad Museum Point of Interest
The California State Railroad Museum (CSRM) in Old Sacramento is the world-class tribute to the role of the "iron horse" in connecting California to the rest of the nation. The museum features restored locomotives and cars, some dating back to 1862. Immerse yourself in the 1860s construction of the Transcontinental Railroad high in the Sierra Nevada. Explore how railroads played a key role in the development of California and shaped people’s lives, the economy, and the unique culture of the West.
California State Railroad Museum Excursion Trains run from April through September and select dates from October through December. Climb aboard the Museum’s Sacramento Southern Railroad and enjoy a relaxing 50-minute roundtrip ride along the Sacramento River. Experience the sights, smells, and sounds of a historic steam or diesel locomotive as it pulls vintage passenger coaches and converted freight cars.
Excursion Trains depart from our reconstructed Central Pacific Passenger Station. Excursion train tickets are $15 adults, $8 youths (ages 6-17), ages 5 and under ride free. For the up-to-date schedule or for more information, please visit the California State Railroad Museum Foundation (CSRMF) Excursion Train Rides page.
Information Links
California State Railroad Museum FoundationOld Sacramento SHP
Location and Parking
The California State Railroad Museum is located in Old Sacramento at 125 "I" Street.  On-street, metered parking in Old Sacramento is for short durations only (90 minutes maximum) and the limited amount of spaces generally fill up early. We recommend instead that guests utilize public parking garages. The closest one is the Old Sacramento Garage located on “I” Street between 3rd and 2nd Streets. The Tower Bridge Garage on Capitol Blvd near the Tower Bridge is also located within Old Sacramento.
Events and Education
We offer special events at the California State Railroad Museum in coordination with our non-profit partner, the California State Railroad Museum Foundation (CSRMF). Numerous engaging interpretive programs are available. Please visit the CSRMF website to learn more about the Museum’s school programs, digital exhibits, podcasts, and more.
Seasons/Climate/Recommended Clothing
Summer and spring are warm; fall and winter can be cool. We advise layered clothing. The interior of the museum is climate-controlled, but exterior displays and excursion trains are subject to the weather.
Photography
We welcome photography for personal use and handheld flash is allowed.
Tripods and free-standing flash are not permitted for safety reasons.Commercial photography is allowed on a case-by-case basis with advance arrangement. Visit www.film.ca.gov for more information.
C. P. Huntington, Southern Pacific Railroad Steam Locomotive No. 1,at the California State Railroad Museum
Image Gallery
View the full gallery
Related Pages
Locomotive Collection
Facility Rentals
California State Railroad Museum Foundation
Adult Group Tours
Capital District State Museums and Historic Parks
School Field Trips & Teacher Resources
Railtown 1897 SHP
Railyard Project
Sacramento Museums
Visitor Safety
Museum Office Telephone
916-323-9280TDD 916-324-2667Accessibility Information916-323-9280
For Additional Information: CSRM Foundation Website
Other reservations are available for Adult Group Tours and School Field Trips.
Museum Mailing Address
CSRM111 "I" StreetSacramento, CA 95814-2265
Connect with Parks and Rec
Sign up to receive the latest State Parks news directly to your email
Subscribe Now
Important Links
Safety Tips
E-bikes
EV Charging
Free Passes
Parks Mobile App
Dogs in Parks
Buy It Where You Burn It
Follow Us
Contact Us
Have a question? Use the Contact Us Page.
© Copyright . All Rights Reserved.
FAQ's
Conditions of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Accessible parks
Site Map