Quotes & Lessons from "Comedian" | PPTSubmit SearchQuotes & Lessons from "Comedian"Aug 15, 2008140 likes88,546 viewsgarrOn the flight back to Japan last week I watched the DVD "Comedian" again, this time while jotting down notes and quotes from the film. I put the quotes in a Slideshare below. This Slideshare is not meant to be a presentation — I'm simply sharing with you some of the new slides I'm working on as I prepare for new talks. Perhaps a quote or two from this deck will be useful for you.Read lessRead more1 of 33Download nowDownloaded 3,242 timesRecommendedValerieValerieprojectbravo The document is lyrics to the song "Valerie" by Amy Winehouse. It describes the singer missing her ex Valerie and wondering what she's been up to since they broke up. The singer paints a picture of Valerie in her head and wonders if Valerie had to go to jail or sell her house. The singer hopes Valerie finds the right man and asks her to stop making a fool of the singer and come over.One ugly pie 12.2One ugly pie 12.2John John Jill killed Carmen and tells Gargamel she will do anything for him. Gargamel is distraught over Carmen's death. Jill suggests Gargamel return to being a criminal mastermind and they flee to a secret evil lair, but Gargamel just wants safety away from there. Jill promises to take care of Gargamel.the story of usthe story of usFilzah Ziqah The speaker reflects on the deterioration of their relationship, from initially thinking they were "the lucky ones" whose love story others would admire, to now finding themselves no longer on the same page and unable to communicate. They wonder if ending the relationship is killing the other person as much as it is killing them, and describe the story of their love as having turned tragic.Rybarczyk poemsRybarczyk poemsLT3MiniMoo Lucas has a dream where he meets a fairy named Terry who tells him to find a magical berry. Terry directs Lucas to a castle shaped like a hat. On the way, Lucas meets his friend Daniel, the King of Mammals, who agrees to help. At the castle, Lucas must battle Ares and his Pokémon. However, Ares' Pokémon turns out to be just a Magikarp. Lucas uses his own Pokémon, Groudon, to win the battle.Subordinating conjunctionsSubordinating conjunctionsandreajiva18 This document discusses subordinating conjunctions and provides examples of their use:
- Subordinating conjunctions introduce dependent clauses and include words like "although," "because," "before," "if," "since," "than," "though," "until," "when," "where," and "while."
- Examples are given showing how each conjunction is used in a sentence, along with song lyrics that illustrate their use.
- An exercise asks the reader to complete sentences using the subordinating conjunctions.I can almost see it that dream i am dreamingI can almost see it that dream i am dreamingmrepzzz The document is a song lyric about climbing mountains and overcoming struggles. It says there will always be challenges, uphill battles, and times of losing, but the most important thing is to keep trying, keep your head held high, and keep pushing forward through the struggles. It's about the climb and facing challenges, not how fast you get to the other side.Everybody wants to rule the word - Tears for FearsEverybody wants to rule the word - Tears for Fearsdigitalfinch Lyrics to the song "Everybody Wants To Rule The World" by Tears for Fears / tekst van  "Everybody Wants To Rule The World" by Tears for Fears(Draft 2.5) darklands pilot(Draft 2.5) darklands pilotKomba1 - Detectives Adamska Kowalski and Evelyn Sawyer are called to investigate two bodies found on a farm. Both bodies have strange engravings carved into their skin.
- One body is fresh while the other is estimated to be two months old. This reminds Evelyn of a previous serial killer case with similar markings.
- The detectives question the old farmer, Mr. Cooper, who found the bodies. The farmer's son, Tom Cooper, who is also an officer, grows increasingly uncomfortable with their questioning.
- When the detectives refuse to rule the farmer out as a suspect, Tom attacks Adamska in anger before Evelyn subdues Tom with her stun baton. She calls for backupSample slides based on Food, Inc.Sample slides based on Food, Inc.garr This new documentary looks good: (Food, Inc. trailer: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mf4ZmfjyEvI ). So I went to the website and found a simple postcard with 10 points about what you can do. It's USA-centric but I though it had some good (though incomplete) points. I whipped these up very quickly just as an experiment. The slides were created in Keynote, saved as JPEGs, and put back into ppt (also as an experiment to see how the render in Slideshare). Aspect ratio is 16x9. I have no affiliation with the Movie whatsoever, just an interested 3rd party.Garr's slides (PPTLive 08)Garr's slides (PPTLive 08)garr These are the slides I used at PowerPoint LIVE 08 (I was in Japan and presented remotely). These will just be up a few days for the participants at the conference. Thanks to everyone in San Diego. Great audience!Think Like a DesignerThink Like a Designergarr The document provides 10 tips for designers from designers, including embracing constraints, practicing, adopting a beginner's mind, focusing on the experience of the design, becoming a master storyteller, thinking of communication rather than decoration, focusing on intention over tools, clarifying your intention, sharpening your vision and curiosity, and learning rules and knowing when to break them.Career Advice '08Career Advice '08garr This presentation outlines the six lessons in Dan Pink's new book, The Adventures of Johnny Bunko. I expanded a little on some of the lessons. I added more text a some more slides than I would use in the actual talk. Nothing fancy -- these are are very simple slides to create.Quotes from Sir Ken Robinson’s 2013 TED talkQuotes from Sir Ken Robinson’s 2013 TED talkgarr Ken Robinson’s talk “How to escape education's death valley” is one of my favorites. It was recorded in April of 2013. I highly recommend that you watch his latest talk on TED.com. The quotes I assembled for the talk are the one’s most salient to me personally. This is not an attempt to summarize his talk in anyway, but perhaps a quote or two will be useful for you in your own presentations related to education, etc. The slides are in PDF, but you can easily cut and paste text as you wish. You can of, course, get the entire transcript of the talk on the ted.com website (in many languages). Let’s keep the conversation regarding the education revolution going. peace - garrSample slides by Garr ReynoldsSample slides by Garr Reynoldsgarr This deck contains slides I have used in live talks that (more or less) are simple and contain quite a bit of empty space. The first set are some before/after examples, followed by a random sample. This deck is not meant to tell a story -- this is just a way to show some random examples. The meaning of the slides may not be at all clear without the narration that goes with the slides. プレゼンテーションZENプレゼンテーションZENgarr This document contains a series of codes with "NG" or "OK" responses and mentions the year 2010. It provides status updates for multiple entries but does not contain enough contextual information to identify what is being checked or summarized.Slides (in PDF) from Safari WebcastSlides (in PDF) from Safari Webcastgarr These were the slides used in the Safari Webcast held 12_15_08 from Tokyo. These are *not* meant to be stand alone slides, but many people were asking for the PDF, so here you go. This is the actual PDF I used. Here, however, some of the type colors may be off (though it worked well when uploaded; colors were correct). It is 240 slides because  I used a PDF and therefore more slides are used to simulate animation. The PDF was 30 MB uploaded here. There were lagging issues during the webex webcast though I was not aware of them. The archive is better though there are still timing issues. Not really much new here in this deck for longtime followers.Pitching Tips: presentation tips from The Pitching CoachPitching Tips: presentation tips from The Pitching Coachgarr This is a remix of tips and advice from David S. Rose's presentations on how to pitch to a VC for money. These slides are not designed to be a stand alone presentation. The design of the slides is experimental and are not the actual slides used by David S. Rose in his presentations to entrepreneurs. Do not adjust your computer -- the display type (Carbontype) is suppose to look that way (whether that is good or bad -- effective or lame -- is another issue all together).
Watch David's excellent talk on the TED website:
http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/david_s_rose_on_pitching_to_vcs.html
About David S. Rose
http://www.ted.com/index.php/speakers/david_s_rose.htmlBe Like Bamboo (TEDxTokyo 2011 slides)Be Like Bamboo (TEDxTokyo 2011 slides)garr These are a pdf of the slides I used in the TEDxTokyo 2011 talk. (there are video clips you can not see in this format of course). This was a 12-minute presentation. The video was streamed live and will be on YouTube soon. Garr's B-Day Prezo (by Nathan Bryan)Garr's B-Day Prezo (by Nathan Bryan)garr Last night (Oct 4) I was taken to a cool designer hotel room by my wife for what I was told was just a quite dinner. When I opened the door, Surprise!!! All my friends had gathered for a surprise birthday party. At that party my good friend Nathan Bryan gave a great presentation using Keynote slides (connected to a large, beautiful LCD display). These are the slides he used. The slides complemented his talk (I do not know where he got some of those pics). It felt like a roast. The slides at the end were sent in by friends and family in ppt (and made in really bad ppt style on purpose...nice). The slide by Duarte is very creative :-)
Nathan's blog:  http://bryan.weblogs.jp/New Year's '07 snaps in JapanNew Year's '07 snaps in Japangarr The document summarizes the author's New Year's Day activities in Nara, Japan visiting in-laws in the countryside. It describes eating traditional foods like mochi and ozoni for breakfast. It then details visiting a nearby shrine and hiking up a mountain to Hozanji Temple. Along the way and at the temple, the author describes the crowds, street vendors selling snacks, and their family members enjoying beer, takoyaki, buttered potatoes and other treats to celebrate the new year.Presentationzen tests audio on Slideshare.netPresentationzen tests audio on Slideshare.netgarr The document discusses the importance of differentiation and engagement. It contains two main themes - differentiation, which is about standing out from others and what makes you unique, and engagement, which is about being interesting to others. Some key points made include that success often comes down to the small details, you need to have something that differentiates you like a "purple cow", and that people should view themselves as a brand and work on developing their own personal brand by figuring out who they are, their values, talents, and passions. The document encourages taking chances and viewing yourself as the brand rather than a commodity.Lesson 4 from Johnny BunkoLesson 4 from Johnny Bunkogarr Dan's latest TED talk reminded me a bit of one of his points in the Johnny Bunko book concerning motivation. So here are the slides just from that part of the Bunko book review slideshare deck I created last year.Guy Kawasaki's foreword for Presentation ZenGuy Kawasaki's foreword for Presentation Zengarr These are the slides used for the foreword in the 2008 international best-seller called "Presentation Zen." Guy thought it would be fun to do it in slide form rather than the traditional book foreword. A lot of people have asked for the slides. Here they are. Sorry, only PDF is available. 15 individual slides.Brain Rules for PresentersBrain Rules for Presentersgarr Vision trumps all other senses. We have better recall for visual information. Pictures beat text - recognition soars with pictures. Exercise boosts brain power. We don't pay attention to boring things and attention steadily drops after 10 minutes, so presenters should change gears every 10 minutes.Fsd Getting Your Point Across PdgFsd Getting Your Point Across PdgMichael Barker This document provides information on public speaking fears and tips for becoming an effective presenter. It includes a list of common fears matched to their names, the top 10 general fears, and reasons why public speaking is the #1 fear. It also lists 4 key factors of outstanding communicators, ways to improve presentation skills, and gestures that indicate confidence or insecurity. The goal is to help readers overcome their public speaking fears and feel more comfortable getting their point across.Public speaking 101Public speaking 101Kurio Some notes that I collected all these years of speaking in public. It's different for everyone, but hope this one can be helpful too.
The presentation was delivered to our group sharing session in 2010.What is a Superteacher?What is a Superteacher?Jaclyn Sullivan Alex Rister of Creating Communication (alexrister1.wordpress.com) asked me to guest blog about what makes a Superteacher. In response I put together this little slideshow. Let the Droids show you the light.The Art of Presentation IV. Following the ZEN path. DELIVERYThe Art of Presentation IV. Following the ZEN path. DELIVERYEduardo S. de la Fuente Third issue of our Lectures on "The Art of Presentation." This time we deal with the process of performing the delivery of the presentation.English - The Art of Ruling (Political Governance) - The Cayman Islands.pdfEnglish - The Art of Ruling (Political Governance) - The Cayman Islands.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me, He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And he shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain. 2 Samuel 23:3-4 Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord; and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Psalm 33:12Authority of church elders in the churchAuthority of church elders in the churchLeonardmomos authority of the church elders More Related ContentViewers also liked (20)Sample slides based on Food, Inc.Sample slides based on Food, Inc.garr This new documentary looks good: (Food, Inc. trailer: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mf4ZmfjyEvI ). So I went to the website and found a simple postcard with 10 points about what you can do. It's USA-centric but I though it had some good (though incomplete) points. I whipped these up very quickly just as an experiment. The slides were created in Keynote, saved as JPEGs, and put back into ppt (also as an experiment to see how the render in Slideshare). Aspect ratio is 16x9. I have no affiliation with the Movie whatsoever, just an interested 3rd party.Garr's slides (PPTLive 08)Garr's slides (PPTLive 08)garr These are the slides I used at PowerPoint LIVE 08 (I was in Japan and presented remotely). These will just be up a few days for the participants at the conference. Thanks to everyone in San Diego. Great audience!Think Like a DesignerThink Like a Designergarr The document provides 10 tips for designers from designers, including embracing constraints, practicing, adopting a beginner's mind, focusing on the experience of the design, becoming a master storyteller, thinking of communication rather than decoration, focusing on intention over tools, clarifying your intention, sharpening your vision and curiosity, and learning rules and knowing when to break them.Career Advice '08Career Advice '08garr This presentation outlines the six lessons in Dan Pink's new book, The Adventures of Johnny Bunko. I expanded a little on some of the lessons. I added more text a some more slides than I would use in the actual talk. Nothing fancy -- these are are very simple slides to create.Quotes from Sir Ken Robinson’s 2013 TED talkQuotes from Sir Ken Robinson’s 2013 TED talkgarr Ken Robinson’s talk “How to escape education's death valley” is one of my favorites. It was recorded in April of 2013. I highly recommend that you watch his latest talk on TED.com. The quotes I assembled for the talk are the one’s most salient to me personally. This is not an attempt to summarize his talk in anyway, but perhaps a quote or two will be useful for you in your own presentations related to education, etc. The slides are in PDF, but you can easily cut and paste text as you wish. You can of, course, get the entire transcript of the talk on the ted.com website (in many languages). Let’s keep the conversation regarding the education revolution going. peace - garrSample slides by Garr ReynoldsSample slides by Garr Reynoldsgarr This deck contains slides I have used in live talks that (more or less) are simple and contain quite a bit of empty space. The first set are some before/after examples, followed by a random sample. This deck is not meant to tell a story -- this is just a way to show some random examples. The meaning of the slides may not be at all clear without the narration that goes with the slides. プレゼンテーションZENプレゼンテーションZENgarr This document contains a series of codes with "NG" or "OK" responses and mentions the year 2010. It provides status updates for multiple entries but does not contain enough contextual information to identify what is being checked or summarized.Slides (in PDF) from Safari WebcastSlides (in PDF) from Safari Webcastgarr These were the slides used in the Safari Webcast held 12_15_08 from Tokyo. These are *not* meant to be stand alone slides, but many people were asking for the PDF, so here you go. This is the actual PDF I used. Here, however, some of the type colors may be off (though it worked well when uploaded; colors were correct). It is 240 slides because  I used a PDF and therefore more slides are used to simulate animation. The PDF was 30 MB uploaded here. There were lagging issues during the webex webcast though I was not aware of them. The archive is better though there are still timing issues. Not really much new here in this deck for longtime followers.Pitching Tips: presentation tips from The Pitching CoachPitching Tips: presentation tips from The Pitching Coachgarr This is a remix of tips and advice from David S. Rose's presentations on how to pitch to a VC for money. These slides are not designed to be a stand alone presentation. The design of the slides is experimental and are not the actual slides used by David S. Rose in his presentations to entrepreneurs. Do not adjust your computer -- the display type (Carbontype) is suppose to look that way (whether that is good or bad -- effective or lame -- is another issue all together).
Watch David's excellent talk on the TED website:
http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/david_s_rose_on_pitching_to_vcs.html
About David S. Rose
http://www.ted.com/index.php/speakers/david_s_rose.htmlBe Like Bamboo (TEDxTokyo 2011 slides)Be Like Bamboo (TEDxTokyo 2011 slides)garr These are a pdf of the slides I used in the TEDxTokyo 2011 talk. (there are video clips you can not see in this format of course). This was a 12-minute presentation. The video was streamed live and will be on YouTube soon. Garr's B-Day Prezo (by Nathan Bryan)Garr's B-Day Prezo (by Nathan Bryan)garr Last night (Oct 4) I was taken to a cool designer hotel room by my wife for what I was told was just a quite dinner. When I opened the door, Surprise!!! All my friends had gathered for a surprise birthday party. At that party my good friend Nathan Bryan gave a great presentation using Keynote slides (connected to a large, beautiful LCD display). These are the slides he used. The slides complemented his talk (I do not know where he got some of those pics). It felt like a roast. The slides at the end were sent in by friends and family in ppt (and made in really bad ppt style on purpose...nice). The slide by Duarte is very creative :-)
Nathan's blog:  http://bryan.weblogs.jp/New Year's '07 snaps in JapanNew Year's '07 snaps in Japangarr The document summarizes the author's New Year's Day activities in Nara, Japan visiting in-laws in the countryside. It describes eating traditional foods like mochi and ozoni for breakfast. It then details visiting a nearby shrine and hiking up a mountain to Hozanji Temple. Along the way and at the temple, the author describes the crowds, street vendors selling snacks, and their family members enjoying beer, takoyaki, buttered potatoes and other treats to celebrate the new year.Presentationzen tests audio on Slideshare.netPresentationzen tests audio on Slideshare.netgarr The document discusses the importance of differentiation and engagement. It contains two main themes - differentiation, which is about standing out from others and what makes you unique, and engagement, which is about being interesting to others. Some key points made include that success often comes down to the small details, you need to have something that differentiates you like a "purple cow", and that people should view themselves as a brand and work on developing their own personal brand by figuring out who they are, their values, talents, and passions. The document encourages taking chances and viewing yourself as the brand rather than a commodity.Lesson 4 from Johnny BunkoLesson 4 from Johnny Bunkogarr Dan's latest TED talk reminded me a bit of one of his points in the Johnny Bunko book concerning motivation. So here are the slides just from that part of the Bunko book review slideshare deck I created last year.Guy Kawasaki's foreword for Presentation ZenGuy Kawasaki's foreword for Presentation Zengarr These are the slides used for the foreword in the 2008 international best-seller called "Presentation Zen." Guy thought it would be fun to do it in slide form rather than the traditional book foreword. A lot of people have asked for the slides. Here they are. Sorry, only PDF is available. 15 individual slides.Brain Rules for PresentersBrain Rules for Presentersgarr Vision trumps all other senses. We have better recall for visual information. Pictures beat text - recognition soars with pictures. Exercise boosts brain power. We don't pay attention to boring things and attention steadily drops after 10 minutes, so presenters should change gears every 10 minutes.Fsd Getting Your Point Across PdgFsd Getting Your Point Across PdgMichael Barker This document provides information on public speaking fears and tips for becoming an effective presenter. It includes a list of common fears matched to their names, the top 10 general fears, and reasons why public speaking is the #1 fear. It also lists 4 key factors of outstanding communicators, ways to improve presentation skills, and gestures that indicate confidence or insecurity. The goal is to help readers overcome their public speaking fears and feel more comfortable getting their point across.Public speaking 101Public speaking 101Kurio Some notes that I collected all these years of speaking in public. It's different for everyone, but hope this one can be helpful too.
The presentation was delivered to our group sharing session in 2010.What is a Superteacher?What is a Superteacher?Jaclyn Sullivan Alex Rister of Creating Communication (alexrister1.wordpress.com) asked me to guest blog about what makes a Superteacher. In response I put together this little slideshow. Let the Droids show you the light.The Art of Presentation IV. Following the ZEN path. DELIVERYThe Art of Presentation IV. Following the ZEN path. DELIVERYEduardo S. de la Fuente Third issue of our Lectures on "The Art of Presentation." This time we deal with the process of performing the delivery of the presentation.Sample slides based on Food, Inc.Sample slides based on Food, Inc.garr Garr's slides (PPTLive 08)Garr's slides (PPTLive 08)garr Think Like a DesignerThink Like a Designergarr Career Advice '08Career Advice '08garr Quotes from Sir Ken Robinson’s 2013 TED talkQuotes from Sir Ken Robinson’s 2013 TED talkgarr Sample slides by Garr ReynoldsSample slides by Garr Reynoldsgarr プレゼンテーションZENプレゼンテーションZENgarr Slides (in PDF) from Safari WebcastSlides (in PDF) from Safari Webcastgarr Pitching Tips: presentation tips from The Pitching CoachPitching Tips: presentation tips from The Pitching Coachgarr Be Like Bamboo (TEDxTokyo 2011 slides)Be Like Bamboo (TEDxTokyo 2011 slides)garr Garr's B-Day Prezo (by Nathan Bryan)Garr's B-Day Prezo (by Nathan Bryan)garr New Year's '07 snaps in JapanNew Year's '07 snaps in Japangarr Presentationzen tests audio on Slideshare.netPresentationzen tests audio on Slideshare.netgarr Lesson 4 from Johnny BunkoLesson 4 from Johnny Bunkogarr Guy Kawasaki's foreword for Presentation ZenGuy Kawasaki's foreword for Presentation Zengarr Brain Rules for PresentersBrain Rules for Presentersgarr Fsd Getting Your Point Across PdgFsd Getting Your Point Across PdgMichael Barker Public speaking 101Public speaking 101Kurio What is a Superteacher?What is a Superteacher?Jaclyn Sullivan The Art of Presentation IV. Following the ZEN path. DELIVERYThe Art of Presentation IV. Following the ZEN path. DELIVERYEduardo S. de la Fuente Recently uploaded (20)English - The Art of Ruling (Political Governance) - The Cayman Islands.pdfEnglish - The Art of Ruling (Political Governance) - The Cayman Islands.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me, He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And he shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain. 2 Samuel 23:3-4 Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord; and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. Psalm 33:12Authority of church elders in the churchAuthority of church elders in the churchLeonardmomos authority of the church elders Sardinian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfSardinian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. "Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her." MARK 14:9 "FORGIVEN" painting by Daniel F. Gerhartz372 Can a man be of benefit to God 373 The words of Job are ended372 Can a man be of benefit to God 373 The words of Job are endedRick Peterson Sermon adapted from, Discovering Christ Day by Day, David FortnerThe Blogs_ Queen Esther's Legacy of Faith _ Andy Blumenthal _ The Times of Is...The Blogs_ Queen Esther's Legacy of Faith _ Andy Blumenthal _ The Times of Is...Andy (Avraham) Blumenthal Article in The Times of Israel by Andy Blumenthal: At its core, the story of Esther unveils a timeless truth: no matter the trials we endure, our ultimate refuge lies in our faith in G-d, the transcendent force above nature itself, who wields the power to weave miracles into the fabric of our lives.
In The Garden of Emunah, Rabbi Shalom Arush illuminates three ascending tiers of this sacred faith: first, the recognition that every event flows from Hashem’s divine providence; second, the belief that all He ordains is for our ultimate good; and third, the understanding that each divine act carries a purpose, urging us to seek the messages He imparts. Our very existence is a quest—a passionate pursuit to uncover Hashem in the rhythm of our daily lives and forge an intimate, enduring bond with Him. This we achieve through an unwavering awareness that G-d is ever-present, guiding every step, and even in life’s darkest trials, He sends us a tikkun—a soul correction—to elevate us to loftier spiritual heights.Lesson 12 – The Church Has an Organizational Nature.pptxLesson 12 – The Church Has an Organizational Nature.pptxCelso Napoleon Lesson 12 – The Church Has an Organizational Nature
SBS – Sunday Bible School
Sunday Bible Lessons for Adults 1st Quarter 2025 CPAD
Title of the Sunday Magazine: IN DEFENSE OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH: Fighting the Ancient Heresies that Present Themselves with a New Appearance
Commentator: Esequias Soares
Class: Adults
Slides: Celso Napoleon
Renewed in Grace
March 23, 2025
Quick & Effective Revenge Spells for Those Who Have Wronged You – Get the Ven...Quick & Effective Revenge Spells for Those Who Have Wronged You – Get the Ven...Traditional Healer, Love Spells Caster and Money Spells That Work Fast Revenge spells magic is potent enough to work as casters wish. But correct items needed to dole out the revenge curse could be difficult to gather.
If you’re keen to know how to cast a revenge spell that really works, you need help from expert chanters. Experienced anchors will help you cast a potent, timely return revenge spell without hassle. When you’ve got correct hands handling your enchantment, making the most of your experience doling out revenge is easy.
When you use the voodoo revenge spell that works immediately, it’s vital to ensure that you cast a spell that doesn’t backfire. A spell backfires for two main reasons. The first is when you cast a spell but disregard the instructions from the spell caster. The second is when you cast voodoo witchcraft revenge spells against a person that has not wronged you.
Revenge spells to punish someone until you are fully avenged. Revenge spells to teach someone a lesson they will never forget using voodoo revenge spells. My spells of revenge will inflict serious harm on your enemies, so do not use my revenge spells unless you are sure.
Revenge spells for cheaters & your enemies. Revenge spells and curses to help you get the ultimate revenge. Voodoo revenge spells for cheaters, ex-lovers, your enemies & people who want to harm you. Give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot & to punish your enemies with revenge curses & spells for revenge.
Did someone cheat on you and broke your heart, then get my revenge spells to mete out some strong revenge against your ex-lover. My revenge spells will ensure that your cheating lover will never cheat again for the rest of his life. Fix their love life to be a disaster with love revenge spells. If your husband is cheating on your or your boyfriend is cheating on you. Punish them together with the person they are cheating on you with love revenge spells. Make a person never find love or make a person never get married with love revenge spells. Remove a love revenge spell from your love life.
Make your enemies get a taste of their own medicine with revenge spells. Don't let evil win by letting an evil person who has wronged you get away without experiencing the suffering they deserve and also don't let evil rule supreme in your world & make people think twice before causing harm on another person who has not done anything to them by using revenge spells for ultimate revenge.
Inflict pain & suffering on someone using a revenge & curses voodoo doll. Punish your enemies & cause them financial & health problems using a voodoo doll.
For many people, voodoo dolls are for harming. The people who want to know how to use a voodoo doll for revenge at home are hurting. There various reasons behind this.
Visit https://www.profbalaj.com/fast-revenge-spells/ for more info or
Call/WhatsApp +27836633417 FOR GUARANTEED RESULTS
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I0tt1XGwlUcebharati-pdf-1619416068Jaimini-Sutras-Suryanarain-Rao-1949.pdfebharati-pdf-1619416068Jaimini-Sutras-Suryanarain-Rao-1949.pdfCantodaSereia Jaimini Astrology SutrasHOW TO KNOW YOUR PAST LIFE- PREVIOUS BIRTHS.pptxHOW TO KNOW YOUR PAST LIFE- PREVIOUS BIRTHS.pptxSamirsinh Parmar Know your past life;
Previous birth;
Meditation and Introspection;
past life regression;
Dreams and Déjà Vu;
Astrology and Palmistry;
Akashic Records Reading;
Unexplained Fears or Talents;
Visiting Places You Feel Drawn;
FAQ:
Who Should Practice?
When to Practice:
How to Practice:
Why practice?
FestivalsOfThailand_MAPEHReport.pptxxxxxFestivalsOfThailand_MAPEHReport.pptxxxxxlorainedarbycapongco ThailandCOLLECTION OF MEDIUMISTIC MESSAGES - CONTINUATION - Franciscco C. Xavier - Em...COLLECTION OF MEDIUMISTIC MESSAGES - CONTINUATION - Franciscco C. Xavier - Em...MashaL38 A compilation with several messages from the psychography of Francisco C. Xavier by the Spirits Emmanuel and André Luiz on several subjects.Asturian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfAsturian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. "Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her." MARK 14:9 "FORGIVEN" painting by Daniel F. Gerhartzhypertension & 5    Research papers.pptxhypertension & 5    Research papers.pptxvivekbammidi2007 mindfull nessLegal protection of men abused by women in the high court_ the role of lawyer...Legal protection of men abused by women in the high court_ the role of lawyer...lawyersonia Legal protection of men abused by women in the high court_ the role of lawyersNo (and I can't believe I have to say this out loud), Empathy Is NOT a Sin!No (and I can't believe I have to say this out loud), Empathy Is NOT a Sin!Vintage Church No (and I can't believe I have to say this out loud), Empathy Is NOT a Sin!TaikoDrumsFestivalJapan_MAPEHReport_.pptxTaikoDrumsFestivalJapan_MAPEHReport_.pptxlorainedarbycapongco MAPEH ARTS
L5.-RELIGION-AND-SOCIETY- RELIGION TOPIC.pptxL5.-RELIGION-AND-SOCIETY- RELIGION TOPIC.pptxKerenJoyCabillonAmod It is one of the topics in the Religion, Religious experience and spiritualityMonthly Khazina-e-Ruhaniyaat March’2025 (Vol.15, Issue 11)Monthly Khazina-e-Ruhaniyaat March’2025 (Vol.15, Issue 11)Darul Amal Chishtia 11th issue of Volume 15. A magazine in urdu language mainly based on spiritual treatment and learning. Many topics on ISLAM, SUFISM, SOCIAL PROBLEMS, SELF HELP, PSYCHOLOGY, HEALTH, SPIRITUAL TREATMENT, Ruqya etc. A very useful magazine for everyone.Asturian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfAsturian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." PROVERBS 22:6Sardinian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfSardinian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." PROVERBS 22:6English - The Art of Ruling (Political Governance) - The Cayman Islands.pdfEnglish - The Art of Ruling (Political Governance) - The Cayman Islands.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. Authority of church elders in the churchAuthority of church elders in the churchLeonardmomos Sardinian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfSardinian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. 372 Can a man be of benefit to God 373 The words of Job are ended372 Can a man be of benefit to God 373 The words of Job are endedRick Peterson The Blogs_ Queen Esther's Legacy of Faith _ Andy Blumenthal _ The Times of Is...The Blogs_ Queen Esther's Legacy of Faith _ Andy Blumenthal _ The Times of Is...Andy (Avraham) Blumenthal Lesson 12 – The Church Has an Organizational Nature.pptxLesson 12 – The Church Has an Organizational Nature.pptxCelso Napoleon Quick & Effective Revenge Spells for Those Who Have Wronged You – Get the Ven...Quick & Effective Revenge Spells for Those Who Have Wronged You – Get the Ven...Traditional Healer, Love Spells Caster and Money Spells That Work Fast ebharati-pdf-1619416068Jaimini-Sutras-Suryanarain-Rao-1949.pdfebharati-pdf-1619416068Jaimini-Sutras-Suryanarain-Rao-1949.pdfCantodaSereia HOW TO KNOW YOUR PAST LIFE- PREVIOUS BIRTHS.pptxHOW TO KNOW YOUR PAST LIFE- PREVIOUS BIRTHS.pptxSamirsinh Parmar FestivalsOfThailand_MAPEHReport.pptxxxxxFestivalsOfThailand_MAPEHReport.pptxxxxxlorainedarbycapongco COLLECTION OF MEDIUMISTIC MESSAGES - CONTINUATION - Franciscco C. Xavier - Em...COLLECTION OF MEDIUMISTIC MESSAGES - CONTINUATION - Franciscco C. Xavier - Em...MashaL38 Asturian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfAsturian Gospel Tract - A Memorial to Mary of Bethany.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. hypertension & 5    Research papers.pptxhypertension & 5    Research papers.pptxvivekbammidi2007 Legal protection of men abused by women in the high court_ the role of lawyer...Legal protection of men abused by women in the high court_ the role of lawyer...lawyersonia No (and I can't believe I have to say this out loud), Empathy Is NOT a Sin!No (and I can't believe I have to say this out loud), Empathy Is NOT a Sin!Vintage Church TaikoDrumsFestivalJapan_MAPEHReport_.pptxTaikoDrumsFestivalJapan_MAPEHReport_.pptxlorainedarbycapongco L5.-RELIGION-AND-SOCIETY- RELIGION TOPIC.pptxL5.-RELIGION-AND-SOCIETY- RELIGION TOPIC.pptxKerenJoyCabillonAmod Monthly Khazina-e-Ruhaniyaat March’2025 (Vol.15, Issue 11)Monthly Khazina-e-Ruhaniyaat March’2025 (Vol.15, Issue 11)Darul Amal Chishtia Asturian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfAsturian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. Sardinian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfSardinian Child Discipline Training Tract.pdfFilipino Tracts and Literature Society Inc. AboutSupportTermsPrivacyCopyrightDo not sell or share my personal informationCookie PreferencesEnglishCurrent Language© 2025 SlideShare from Scribd