Colorado Soccer Now   » Colorado Rapids | News and commentary about soccer in Colorado
Log in |  RSS | Contact  | About
Home
About us
Schedules / Results
Links
Directions
ON TWITTER
Home » Archive
Articles in the Colorado Rapids Category
Colorado Rapids »
More of the same
June 19, 8:27 pm | By Shaun Schafer
Colorado is getting a jump on its July swoon by starting it in June. The Rapids went to Chicago for Wednesday’s 2-1 loss.
Colorado Rapids »
Bad habit
April 22, 9:52 pm | By Monica Garcia
Humans are creatures of habit. Some habits are better than others. When they are of the bad sort, we attempt to break them, but bad habits die hard.
Coming off a two-win streak this loss to the Seattle Sounders was a hard pill to swallow for the Rapids.
Although the Sounders had not won one game this season their first win, April 20, marked their seventh straight win against the Rapids. The Rapids have not won a match against the Sounders since 2010. Apparently soccer habits are even harder to break.
The Rapids …
Colorado Rapids »
Heroes rise for an unlikely win
April 10, 8:07 am | By Monica Garcia
A winless start to the season turned into a sweet victory over Real Salt Lake as the Rapids found an unlikely hero in the nets.
Colorado Rapids »
Cold Start to the Season
March 11, 2:18 pm | By Monica Garcia
The energy was booming in Dicks Sporting Goods Field in anticipation of the home opener for the Colorado Rapids, Sunday. Fans were beating drums, singing and cheering.
Though the energy level was invigorating; the game was somewhat of a disappointment.  The expected “W” for the Rapids became their second loss of the season.
The Philadelphia Union earned its first win against the Rapids since the Union joined the MSL in 2010.   It also gave the Rapids their first home opener loss in 10 seasons.
The first blow to the Rapids confidence was …
Colorado Rapids »
Is this really the direction to take?
February 25, 9:20 pm | By Shaun Schafer | 2
The Rapids have a new alternate jersey, but it looks very similar.
Colorado Rapids »
Draft decisions fill a few needs
January 17, 3:29 pm | By Shaun Schafer
The Rapids added to a host of midfielders, picked up another attacker and took out a left back insurance policy with three choices in Thursday’s MLS SuperDraft.
Colorado Rapids »
Rapids add to midfield
January 17, 12:23 pm | By Shaun Schafer
Known for his ability to hold the ball and see the field to make passes, Dillon Powers joins the crowded Rapids midfield.
Colorado Rapids »
Rapids add a forward
January 17, 11:26 am | By Shaun Schafer
Deshorn Brown, a swift player, joined the Rapids thin ranks at forward on Thursday.
Colorado Rapids »
Larentowicz shipped to Fire
January 17, 11:07 am | By Shaun Schafer
A class act left town on Wednesday as Jeff Larentowicz was traded to the Chicago Fire.
Colorado Rapids »
Hill, Akpan provide winning close
October 28, 9:06 pm | By Shaun Schafer
A disappointing season ended on a hopeful note as the Rapids netted consecutive 2-0 victories to close the 2012 campaign.
Page 1 of 2912345»...Last »
Popular tags
Bill Hempen
Bobby Muuss
Brian Mullan
Colin Clark
Colorado Force
Colorado Rapids
Colorado School of Mines
Conor Casey
Dick's Sporting Goods Park
Drew Moor
Fort Lewis College
Gary Smith
Jamie Smith
Jeff Larentowicz
Julien Baudet
Kosuke Kimura
Landon Donovan
Major League Soccer
Matt Pickens
Mehdi Ballouchy
Metro State
Nick LaBrocca
Nikki Marshall
Omar Cummings
Pablo Mastroeni
Real Salt Lake
Scott Palguta
Seattle Sounders
University of Colorado
University of Denver
Recent Twitters The Rapids UndercurrentUndercurrent & ColoradoRapids.com UpdateFind the Jumbo JabulaniTime to return...Witness to the drama!Ellis Park, USA Game TwoThe Annoying VuvuzelasThe Argentina gameAfrica Unite!Rustenburg - Royal Bafokeng StadiumSouth Africa, first view...
About ColoradoSoccerNow
Our goal at ColoradoSoccerNow.com is to cover the sport in this state like no one else, from colleges to the Colorado Rapids, from the W-League to the U.S. men's and women's national teams.
About George:  George Tanner fell in love with the Tampa Bay Rowdies and the North American Soccer League while living in the Tampa, Fla., area in the mid-1970s. He got his first taste of newspapering while following the Rowdies every day in the Tampa Tribune, and from there grew the seeds of a journalism career in which he has worked at the Colorado Springs Sun; the Daily Camera in Boulder; the Durango Herald; The Daily Independent in Ridgecrest, Calif.; the Greeley Tribune; and the Rocky Mountain News.
E-mail George here.
About Cole:  Not since the days of Ace Ntsoelengoe, the Minnesota Kicks and the North American Soccer League has Cole McGinnis been so excited about soccer. Cole handles the business functions of ColoradoSoccerNow.com, and he's the man to speak with about front-office issues.
E-mail Cole here.
About Jonathan:  Jonathan Ingraham is a Colorado native, sports hound, outdoors enthusiast and Metropolitan State College student, working on a journalism degree. Outside of school, he works as a freelance photographer and is available for photographing places, people, events, games or artistic shoots for businesses or personal collections.  E-mail Jonathan here.
About Tom: Tom Auclair remembers watching the New England Tea Men when he was younger and thinking what a terrible name that was for a sports team. He has worked for the Rocky Mountain News, Longmont Daily Times-Call and several newspapers in New Hampshire. He's currently working as an editor and photographer for a collection of Web sites. He can't believe how quick Omar Cummings is.   E-mail Tom here.
Powered by WordPress | Privacy Policy