(function(w,d,s,l,i){w[l]=w[l]||[];w[l].push({'gtm.start':
new Date().getTime(),event:'gtm.js'});var f=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],
j=d.createElement(s),dl=l!='dataLayer'?'&l='+l:'';j.async=true;j.src=
'https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtm.js?id='+i+dl;f.parentNode.insertBefore(j,f);
})(window,document,'script','dataLayer','GTM-M9HK7VS');
.hs-form-field label span:first-of-type {
display: none!important;
}
Interview with Quebec Immigration Minister Yolande James – Michele Wucker's Author Website
home
about
about me
Gray Rhino & Company
media kit
in the media
wuckerpedia
Privacy Policy
the latest
Speaking
Michele’s Speaking
Tango for Leaders
Writing
Essays and Articles
You Are What You Risk
The Gray Rhino Book
why the cocks fight
lockout
Digital Learning
Risk Awareness Week
Gnowbe Microlearning Course: What’s Your Gray Rhino [Personal Version]
Contact
Search for:
Interview with Quebec Immigration Minister Yolande James
Posted on April 11, 2010April 18, 2010 by Michele
Immigrant Policy in Québec:  Successes and Lessons Learned
Video of my discussion with Yolande James, Minister of Cultural Communities, Government of Quebec, at the World Policy Institute April 7, 2010.
Canada has long taken pride in its reputation for successfully  welcoming immigrants. Nevertheless, like other immigrant destinations,  it has faced challenges like combating racism, matching immigrants’  skills with appropriate jobs, and ensuring that immigrants have the  language skills they need. Under a bilateral agreement with the Canadian  federal government, Québec is able to make its own policies on the  immigrants it selects, and to design and implement its own policies on  integration and diversity -that is, “immigrant” policies, and not just  “immigration” policies.
Québec’s Minister of Immigration and Cultural Communities Yolande  James, the daughter of Canadian citizens who emigrated from  St. Lucia and St. Vincent, spoke with WPI Executive Director Michele  Wucker about Québec’s successes and the lessons that it has  learned.  Minister James also spoke about how Québec has used  immigration policies to support Haiti following the January 12  earthquake.
Posted in Lectures, Readings and Other Public EventsTagged Canada, earthquake, Haiti, immigration, integration, migration
Leave a ReplyYou must be logged in to post a comment.
Back to top
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.Cookie SettingsAccept AllManage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT