Sixty-Five Roses Golf Tournament Raises More Than $75,000 for Cystic Fibrosis Research | What's Up Jacksonville
Archives
About Us
Home
Ranked by Feedspot as a Top 25 Jacksonville Blog/Website
← St. Johns County Import Companies to Benefit From New Designation
Make Your Holiday Season Sparkle with Holiday Decor →
Sixty-Five Roses Golf Tournament Raises More Than $75,000 for Cystic Fibrosis Research
November 14th, 2011 · Leave a Comment
Event Co-Chairs Jim McCarthy and Mark Berman
More than 80 golfers turned out for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (CFF) of North Florida’s 12th annual Sixty-Five Roses Golf Tournament at the Jacksonville Golf and Country Club on Nov. 5. Tournament participants enjoyed a day of golfing and fellowship, followed by an awards ceremony with silent auction where nearly 150 guests were in attendance. In spite of inclement weather on Nov. 7 that forced the cancellation of the companion tennis tournament, the event has currently raised $75,000 with more donations expected.
Flight One 1st Place (gross) Winners
Golfers competed in a two-flight, four-man scramble format, based on handicap. Flight One 1st place (gross) winners were Michael Choma, Justin Kuehn, John Johnson and Scott Winch from PlaidParty.com. Flight One 1st place (net) winners were Dalany Mills, Lenny Schonfeld, Nathan McDaniels and Casey Clements from Money Pages. Flight Two 1st place (gross) winners were Joe Hughes and Miles Votava from Greenriver Corporation. Flight Two 1st place (net) winners were Curtis Dvorak, Robert Tilka, Chris Phillips and Gina Bulgin from PlaidParty.com.
Flight Two 1st Place (gross) Winners
The success of the tournament was largely based on the support of area businesses and organizations. Premier sponsors of the event included Wolfson Children’s Hospital, PlaidParty.com, Anonymous Friends of the Foundation and W.W. Gay Mechanical Contractor. American Airlines served as the outstanding national corporate sponsor and Bansley, Brescia & Co., P.C. served as the 65 Roses Sponsor. All proceeds from the event benefit the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. After more than 50 years of service, CFF remains committed to its core mission: to assure a means to cure and control cystic fibrosis and to improve the quality of life for those with the disease.
Tags: · 65 Roses Golf & Tennis Classic · Cystic Fibrosis Foundation · Northeast Florida · Sixty-Five Roses
0 responses so far ↓
There are no comments yet...Kick things off by filling out the form below.
You must log in to post a comment.
Search It!
Recent Entries
HOLON manufacturing facility projected to generate nearly $300 Million for local economy by 20283.25
Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices Florida Network Realty Honors Award-Winning Top Producers3.24
JaxReady Fest Returns April 25-26 – Free parking, admission, giveaways and family fun3.20
GreenPointe Holdings Welcomes Steve Griggs as Development Manager of Caribbean Division3.18
Honorees Announced for North Florida Land Trust’s Annual Meeting and Awards Celebration3.17
February Showed Quicker Sales Timelines for Single Family Homes in Northeast Florida3.13
Timucuan Parks Foundation to host cleanups as part of the 30th Annual St. Johns River Celebration3.12
CompassMSP welcomes small and mid-sized Business Leaders to IT & Cybersecurity Event3.11
JAX Chamber Announces Access to Capital Initiative3.10
Monique Burr Foundation Announces A Night in the Vineyard at SoNapa Grille3.6
Visit the archives for more!
What's Happening
Cultural Council
Downtown Jacksonville
Florida Trend
Jacksonville Magazine
JAX Chamber
© 2006–
What's Up Jacksonville