Prudence Heward / Rollande / 1929
Prudence HewardRollande1929
View Larger Image
View Full Catalog Record Below
This image is one of over 108,000 from the AMICA Library (formerly The Art Museum Image Consortium Library- The AMICO Library™), a growing online collection of high-quality, digital art images from over 20 museums around the world.
www.davidrumsey.com/amica offers subscriptions to this collection, the finest art image database available on the internet. EVERY image has full curatorial text and can be studied in depth by zooming into the smallest details from within the Image Workspace.
Preview the AMICA Library™ Public Collection in Luna
Browser Now
Cultures and time periods represented
range from contemporary art, to ancient Greek, Roman, and Egyptian works.
Types of works include paintings, drawings,
watercolors, sculptures, costumes, jewelry, furniture, prints, photographs,
textiles, decorative art, books and manuscripts.
Gain access to this incredible resource through either a
monthly or a yearly subscription and search the entire collection from
your desktop, compare multiple images side by side and zoom into the minute
details of the images. Visit www.davidrumsey.com/amica
for more information on the collection, click on the link below the
revolving thumbnail to the right, or email us at amica@luna-img.com
.
Creator Name: Heward, Prudence
Creator Nationality: CANADIAN
Biography: Canadian, 1896-1947
Gender: F
Creator Birth Place: Canada: Quebec, Montreal
Creator Death Place: U.S.A.: California, Los Angeles
Creator Name-CRT: Prudence Heward
Title: Rollande
View: Full View
Creation Start Date: 1929
Creation End Date: 1929
Creation Date: 1929
Object Type: Paintings
Classification Term: Painting
Materials and Techniques: oil on canvas
Dimensions: 139.9 x 101.7 cm
AMICA Contributor: National Gallery of Canada
Owner Location: Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
ID Number: 3709
Credit Line: Purchased 1930
Rights: http://national.gallery.ca/english/index.html
AMICA ID: NGC_.3709
Measurement Unit: cm
Measurement Dimension: width
AMICA Library Year: 2003
Media Metadata Rights:
AMICA PUBLIC RIGHTS: a) Access to the materials is granted for personal and non-commercial use. b) A full educational license for non-commercial use is available from Cartography Associates at www.davidrumsey.com/amica/institution_subscribe.html c) Licensed users may continue their examination of additional materials provided by Cartography Associates, and d) commercial rights are available from the rights holder.
Home
| Subscribe
| Preview
| Benefits
| About
| Help
| Contact
Copyright © 2007 Cartography Associates.
All rights reserved.