Transbay Tube Earthquake retrofit keeps farmers market in place | Bay Area Rapid Transit
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Schedules
Schedules
Real Time Departures
Line Schedule Timetables
Caltrain Transfer Timetables
Trip Planner
Alerts and Advisories
Early Bird Express
Capitol Corridor Transfer Timetables
Weather Guide
Plan Your Trip
Create your own customized schedule
Use the Trip Planner
Stations
Stations
System Map
Elevator Status
Escalator Status
Station Details
Just select your station on the Station List page
Select Your Station
Using BART
Using BART
BART Apps
Parking
Parking Overview
Parking Citations
Carpool to BART
Electric Vehicle (EV)
Parking Pricing
Parking FAQ
Pay By App
Airport Connections
San Francisco International Airport (SFO)
Oakland International Airport (OAK)
Transit Connections
Bikes on BART
Bikes on BART
Bike FAQ
Bike Rules
Bike Task Force
Holiday Schedule
Social Resources
Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Devices Program (EPAMD)
Accessibility
Accessibility Overview
Elevator Status
Paratransit
Regional Transit Connection (RTC) Card
BART Accessibility Task Force
Accessibility Contacts
FAQs
Lost & Found
Safety & Security
Security on BART
Addressing Gender Based Violence
Injury Prevention
Public Safety Power Shutoffs (PSPS)
Earthquake Safety
Title VI
Service Animals/Pets
Wireless Connections
Brochures
Restrooms at BART
Safe & Clean Plan
Bikes are Welcome
Just follow a few simple rules when taking your bike on BART
Read More
Fares
Fares and Pay by Phone
Clipper Customer Service
Purchasing and Group Sales
Discounts
Tax Benefits
Fare Calculator
Refunds
How Much is Your Fare?
Find out quickly using the BART Fare Calculator
Calculate Your Fare
News
News
Fun Stuff
Fun Stuff
The Machines of BART
Podcasts
Media Resources
News Alerts
Email and Text Subscriptions
Real Time Departure
Active Service Alert
BART Apps
RSS Feeds
BARTable
BART TV
News Alerts
Stay up-to-date with News Alerts sent by email or text
Sign Up
About
About
Board of Directors
Board of Directors
Agenda & Minutes
Advisory Committees
Meeting Video
Meeting Notices Via Email
2020 Board Meeting Schedule (PDF)
Public Participation at Meetings (PDF)
Board Adopted Policies
Director Elections
Legislative Advocacy
General Manager
Financials
Budget Archive
Financial Crisis
BART Grants
Reports
Inspector General
Inspector General
Facts & History
Facts & History
Historical Films
Historical Timeline (PDF)
System Facts
Car Types
Projects & Plans
Projects & Plans
System Rebuilding
New BART Train Cars
Train Control Modernization
Hayward Maintenance Complex
Planning
Station Modernization
Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)
Earthquake Safety
Silicon Valley Extension
Transbay Capacity Relief
New Fare Gates
Legacy Fleet Decommissioning
Future Irvington Station
Role In The Region
BART Police
BART Police
People of BART PD
Latest News
Know Your Zone
BART Watch App
Employment
How To
Policy & Reports
Proof of Payment
Contact BART Police
Reforms to Date
Office of the Independent Police Auditor
Office Of The Independent Police Auditor
OIPA Recommendations
Monthly & Annual Reports
Community Outreach
Resources
FAQ's
Police Citizen Review Board
Doing Business
Doing Business
Procurement
Office of Civil Rights
Insurance
Permits
Advertising Opportunities
Transit-Oriented Development
Standard Specifications
Accounts Payable
Careers
Careers Overview
Job Descriptions
Salary Schedule
Careers FAQs
Collective Bargaining Agreements
Workforce Development
Sustainability
Sustainability
Policy & Reports
Energy at BART
Electric Vehicle Charging at BART
Water at BART
Rider Feedback
Developer Program
BART Merch
BART Career Opportunities
Explore the latest jobs listings on our Career page
View the Listings
Contact
Breadcrumb
Home
| News Articles
| 10.16.06 News Article
10.16.06
This story is archived. Visit bart.gov/news for the latest BART news.
Transbay Tube Earthquake retrofit keeps farmers market in place
Engineers will get the job done with little disruption
BART officials unveiled a new Transbay Tube earthquake retrofit plan that will mean the San Francisco Ferry Building's world-renowned Farmers Market can remain in place while engineers work to strengthen the Tube to withstand a massive temblor.
As a result of the new plan, the impact on the Farmers Market vendors and the 40,000 people who visit them each weekend, will be far less than BART first predicted. BART worked extensively with both Farmers Market and Ferry Building vendors, the Port of San Francisco and other stakeholders to find a solution.
"As we've proven with the Farmer's Market, BART always tries to go the extra mile to accommodate the community," BART Board Vice President Lynette Sweet said today. The Transbay Tube retrofit project is one of the most essential components of BART's $1.3 billion Earthquake Safety Program.
"The Earthquake Safety Program is critically important to BART and to the entire Bay Area," BART Director James Fang said. "We are overjoyed that we can continue with this urgent project and yet not disrupt one of the city's true gems, the Farmers Market."
THE NEW PLANEveryone got a big break when BART engineers determined that some of the soil surrounding the Transbay Tube was stronger than initial studies predicted.
Each weekend, the Farmers Market sets up on the Ferry Building's pier. The Tube runs under that pier. BART's preliminary studies suggested that the soil surrounding the Tube under the pier needed strengthening in order to prevent the Tube from moving in a major earthquake. In order to thicken the soil, BART engineers thought they would have to move the Farmer's Market and bore through the pier to get to the soil.
But after months of intensely detailed engineering, BART was able to determine the soil under the pier was stronger than originally thought and the only section of soil that needed thickening was the soil surrounding the base of the World Trace Center located at the far eastern end of the pier. That meant the Farmers Market, which sets up on the western end of the pier, can remain in place when the Tube retrofit work begins in early 2008.
TRANSBAY TUBE RETROFIT CRITICALLY IMPORTANTProtecting the Transbay Tube is just one part of BART's 10-year Earthquake Safety Program. It is, however, one of the most crucial portions. The 3.6-mile Transbay Tube carries roughly one-half of the 330,000 riders who take BART each weekday.
Many people believe the Tube is earthquake safe because it withstood the October 17, 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. However, that quake was about 60 miles from the Bay Area. Geologists say the next big one will likely be much closer, and possibly cause the soil under the Tube to liquefy.
In fact, U.S. Geological Survey geologists say there's a 62% chance of one or more 6.7 magnitude or greater earthquakes striking the Bay Area between now and the year 2032.
"We're in a race against time to get all this work done," said Vice President Sweet.
TUBE STRENGTHENING METHODSEngineers will compact the soil surrounding the Tube to prevent the soil from liquefying in an earthquake. BART engineers will use a combination of the following different strengthening methods to secure the Tube:
VIBRO-COMPACTION:This method involves using a device that will vibrate the soil around the Tube to compact it. The process is roughly similar to what happens to cake mix when you turn on the cake mixer and the mix starts to compact along the edge of the bowl. This method would prevent the soil from liquefying in an earthquake.
VIBRO-REPLACEMENT:This method is virtually the same as the vibro-compaction except that stone columns are added to the hole created by the vibro-compaction. This method would prevent the soil from liquefying in a quake.
GROUTING:This method pumps a liquid cement-like material into the soil, which then hardens and densifies the soil.
TUBE STRENGTHENING WORK ALREADY BEGUNWork to strengthen the Transbay Tube on the Oakland end began mid-summer. Condon Johnson & Associates, Inc. - the construction firm doing the work - is using both the grouting and vibro-replacement methods to strengthen the soil around the Tube.
TIMELINE AND COSTSConstruction to strengthen the entire Transbay Tube will take about four years to complete and cost approximately $330 million in 2004 dollars. Toll bridge money will cover $143 million of the costs. The rest will come from BART's $1.3 billion Earthquake Safety Program.
$1.3B EARTHQUAKE SAFETY PROGRAM A HUGE UNDERTAKINGBART's Earthquake Safety Program will retrofit the Tube as well as BART stations and more than 1,900 columns that hold up elevated tracks. The 10-year, $1.3 billion program is funded through a $980 million property tax measure that voters passed in November 2004, bridge toll funds, the Caltrans Seismic Safety Retrofit Program and BART general revenues.
News
News
Fun Stuff
Podcasts
Media Resources
News Alerts
RSS Feeds
BARTable
BART TV
Sign Up for News Alerts
Stay up-to-date with News Alerts sent by email or text:Subscribe Now
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART)
Contact Us
Stay Connected
twitter
facebook
youtube
tiktok
instagram
advisories
email
rss
Quick Links
Trip Planner
Real Time Departures
System Map
Fare Calculator
BART Merch
Alerts and Advisories
Parking
Airport Service
Accessible Services
Careers
Board Meetings
BART Police
Visit BARTable
Utility Footer
© 2025 San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District
Privacy Policy
Report a Biohazard
Report a Hot or Cold Car
Language Links
日本語
中文
Deutsch
Français
Italiano
한국어
Español