Berk Marketing - Remnant Radio & TV Advertising
Skip to content
Services
SiriusXM Radio Advertising
Remnant Radio Advertising
National TV Advertising
DirectTV Advertising
DISH Advertising
Hulu Advertising
Talk Radio Advertising
Sports Talk Radio
Testimonials
About
Contact
Services
SiriusXM Radio Advertising
Remnant Radio Advertising
National TV Advertising
DirectTV Advertising
DISH Advertising
Hulu Advertising
Talk Radio Advertising
Sports Talk Radio
Testimonials
About
Contact
(866) 747-4707
Radio and TV Advertising Without the Premium Price
Whether you're promoting a product, service, or event, remnant radio advertising offers unmatched value for businesses looking to make a big impact without a big budget.
Book a Free Consultation
First Name
Last Name
Email
Your Phone
Company
Company Website
Monthly Budget
$5,000 - $10,000
$10,000 - $20,000
$20,000 +
Which Services Are You Interested in?
SiriusXM Radio Advertising Local Radio Advertising Talk Radio Advertising TV Advertising Other
Additional Message For Us
SMS Text Message Consent
By checking this box, you agree to receive text messages from Berk Marketing, related to your request for communication about our services. You may reply STOP to opt-out at any time. Reply HELP to 858-481-4388 for assistance. Message and data rates may apply. Message frequency will vary. You can find our Privacy Policy at: https://www.radioadvertisinghome.com/privacy-policy/ & Terms and conditions at https://www.radioadvertisinghome.com/terms-of-use/.
Book a Consultation
Discover the Power of Remnant Advertising with Berk Marketing
Looking to quickly and cost-effectively attract more qualified leads? Remnant advertising offers a profitable solution for businesses of all sizes, whether targeting local, regional or national markets.
TargetedTraffic
With radio, you can target your ideal audience based on demographics such as age, gender, geography and timed during hours they are most likely to be tuned in to hear your message
QualifiedLeads
Our approach to advertising on radio is direct-response radio, so that everyone that responds to your radio spot is self-qualified based on the offer and call-to-action.
FastResults
When you run a radio ad spot, you can begin getting qualified leads calling or visiting your website in just a matter of moments, giving your business valuable exposure faster than ever!
Maximize Your Reach with Our Remnant Advertising Services
Learn more about our cost-effective remnant ad solutions. By utilizing unsold ad space across various media channels, we connect you with your target audience efficiently and affordably.
SiriusXM Advertising
Radio Advertising
TV Advertising
Our Clients Love Us
"Our company, Term Provider, began working with Berk Marketing in 2011. Around that time, we also decided to feature BIG LOU as our lead agent. With the expertise and creative support of Berk Marketing, we developed a variety of scripts and radio spots centered around Big Lou. Today, our BIG LOU campaign is one of the most recognized ads on SIRIUS XM and pretty much any radio station in America. A testament to the collaboration and success we’ve achieved together. A big thank you from the entire team at BIG LOU!"
In Good Company
Join the ranks of our satisfied clients who have achieved success through our tailored advertising solutions. Unlock the potential of remnant advertising to extend your brand's reach without exceeding your budget.
Uncover the Power of Remnant Advertising
Get Started
TARGETED TRAFFIC
QUALIFIED LEADS
COST-EFFECTIVE
FAST RESULTS
Get Qualifeid Leads Fast
Be on the air in as little as 24 hours!
Facebook
X-twitter
Youtube
Linkedin
Top RatedServices
SiriusXM Radio Advertising
Remnant TV Advertising
Remnant Radio Advertising
Talk Radio Advertising
Local RadioAdvertising
New York
Los Angeles
Chicago
Houston
Washington DC
Philadelphia
HelpfulResources
Why Radio Advertising Works
Why Talk Radio is Superior to Digital Advertising
Contact Us
© 2024 Berk Marketing. All Right Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms