Austin Commercial Real Estate Company | AQUILA Commercial
Keywords
Search
Search
Property Search
Search
Menu
Property Search
About
About OverviewTeam
Case Studies
History
Press Releases
Careers
El Arroyo Sign Gallery
Now Hiring Interns
Apply for our internship program
For Tenants
For Tenants OverviewServices
Tenant Representation
Project Management
Specialties
Office
Education
High Growth & Tech
Industrial
Law Firms
Nonprofits
Manufacturing
Retail
For Owners & CRE Investors
For Owners & CRE Investors OverviewServices
Project Leasing
Property Management
CRE Investment Services
Specialties
Office
Industrial
Retail
Land
Austin Market Reports
Austin Market Reports OverviewOffice Reports
Industrial Reports
Featured Resource
3Q 2024 Austin Office Market Report
Learning Center
Learning Center OverviewBy Topic
For Tenants
For Owners & CRE Investors
Austin Resources
Guides
Building Out Office Space
Finding Office Space
Hiring a Project Manager
Hiring a Tenant Rep Broker
Hiring a Leasing Team
Marketing Your Property
Hiring a Property Management Firm
Hiring an Industrial Tenant Rep Broker
Finding Industrial Space
Contact
No one knows Austin better.®
Our deep commercial real estate experience and market insights give you a critical competitive advantage in the Austin market.
For Tenants
Whether you’re new to Austin commercial real estate, or eager to expand your growing empire, AQUILA is the one Austin firm that will give you an inside edge. Our intimate, real-time understanding of the market will secure the perfect property at the best lease terms possible. (We’ll even help you build out your new space!)
For Owners
Austin is a commercial real estate investor’s dream—a large, diverse real estate market exploding with possibility. But to seize the finest opportunities here—whether office, retail, industrial, or land—you need a partner who can do it all. You need professionals who see every transaction, know every property, and manage every aspect of your commercial real estate investment. You need AQUILA.
Your full service commercialreal estate partner.
Office
Office Tenant Services
Office Owners & CRE Investors
Retail
Retail Tenant Services
Retail Owners & CRE Investors
Industrial
Industrial Tenant Services
Industrial Owners & CRE Investors
Land
Land Services
Find a Property
Submarket
Select a submarket
Northwest
Lockhart
Leander
CBD
Jarrell
Buda
Bastrop
Round Rock
Kyle
Central
Northeast
East
Southwest
San Marcos
Cedar Park
Southeast
Schertz
Hutto
North
Georgetown
Taylor
Pflugerville
South
Copperas Cove
Property name
Property Zip
Square Feet (minimum)
Square Feet (maximum)
Office
Retail
Industrial
Land
Flex
For Sublease
For Sale
For Lease
Managed by AQUILA
Search
Have questions about commercial real estate in Austin?
Learning Center
Pros and Cons of Vertical Mixed-Use Retail Space
Commercial Property Classifications & Types of Office Spaces (Class A Office, Creative Office, etc.)
Medical Retail Space Types Explained
Market Intelligence
AQUILA uses data to help our clients make informed decisions. Check out our latest Office Market Report to get insights into Austin's commercial real estate scene.
Download the Latest Report
Want the latest from the AQUILA Learning Center?
We’ll send you one email a month featuring our most relevant content. You can also manage your subscription preferences.
Don't just take our word for it.
Client Testimonials
I've witnessed firsthand, on multiple occasions, the value that the AQUILA team brings to its clients. Whether you need savvy tenant representation expert to help identify the perfect location for your business or you want to maximize the value of your [commercial] real estate investments, AQUILA has the experience and the know-how to make it happen.”
— Kerry Hall, President - Austin Region, Texas Capital Bank
I had the pleasure to work with the AQUILA team on the redevelopment and repositioning at 7700 Parmer. During that time they truly became an extension of the Spear Street Capital team and treated the property as if it were their own. After working with AQUILA for almost seven years I count them as not just partners, but friends.”
— Peter Kahn, Chief Investment Officer, Spear Street Capital
AQUILA engaged with us cheerfully through a rigorous review process involving several partners and staff, all of whom asked tough questions, offered strong opinions, and expected results. They are friendly, knowledgeable, always professional.”
— Allen Odom, Administrator, Bickerstaff Heath Delgado Acosta LLP
At JuiceLand we’re always innovating and looking to grow in order to keep our creative juices flowing. That means we’re all over the place all of the time. Jason Faludi with AQUILA has been able to keep up with our frenetic pace and facilitated one great location after another. We look forward to growing with him for years to come.”
— Matt Shook, Owner/Originator, JuiceLand
AQUILA was instrumental in assembling the right team and streamlining the project schedule to deliver a high design space on time and on budget – and we all had fun putting the project together and felt great when the office opened! Would highly recommend AQUILA for project management.”
— Karen Lalli, Director of Global Workplace and Facilities, GLG
Get to Know Us
AQUILA is an Austin, TX-based commercial real estate firm offering tenant representation, project leasing, asset, property, and project management services.
About AQUILA
Instagram
LinkedIn
Youtube
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Consumer Protection Notice
Brokerage Services
Contact Us
Property Search
© 2025 AQUILA Commercial. All Rights Reserved