Cobra Tech Services | Specialists in Mill Performance Improvement
skip to Main Content
541-517-5370
About
Services
Upgrades
Repairs & Rebuilds
Consultations
Products
Pineapples
Planer Bed Rolls
Spiral Bed Rolls
Drive Systems
Feedtable Systems
Tension Position Systems
Powered Shears
Troubleshooting
Maximizing Production
Feedtable
Planer
Planer Equipment
Hydraulics
By Brand
Gilbert
Woods
Yates
Stetson Ross
Coastal
Newman
Contact
Search
Search
Submit
Making your Planer Mill more efficientGet a Quote  UpgradesThere is always room for improvements
We do upgrades for Stetson Ross, Newman, Coastal, Yates, Gilbert, and USNR equipment. We work closely with mills who want more for their performance.
Learn More Repairs and RebuildsWe help you save costs
Not only do we build new, we help you save costs by repairing and rebuilding feed-table and planer components, sawmill rolls, and parts.
learn More ConsultingRun your planer mill more efficiently
Cobra Tech consultants can do an overall inspection of your planer equipment, asses how the mill operators run the equipment, then provide recommendations to help increase production.
Learn More
Cobra Technical Services Products
Our products are helping companies across the USA, Canada, and South America improve their feed table and planer performance.
Planer Pineapple Roll
Our pineapples are specifically designed for the type of lumber and system in your mill. They come sand blasted or smooth, with hardened chrome plating.
Learn More
Custom Designed Bed Rolls
Cobra has used high speed cameras to study different bed rolls and pineapples to bring a better understanding than most. The lead of our bed rolls match the lead of our pineapples, this gives them the ability to work and pull the board together.
Learn More
Planer Drive Rolls
All Cobra Bed rolls  “Feed Roll” have the hubs heat shrunk in. This is done so the two opposing pieces of steel can accept variations in temperature without braking welds.
Learn More
Hydraulic Drive System
We offer the best hydraulic drive system for planers and feed tables. Our design has come from over 40 years of experience with hydraulics and planer mills. It was designed for performance and a longer component life by using top of the line products and eliminating flow dividers.
Learn More
Copyright © 2025  Cobra Technical Services
Developed by Partnered Solutions IT | Designed by Ruby Porter Marketing and Design
Back To Top×