PLAYBACK > AudioBus: Christopher Willits
X
How do I get paid? Learn about our new Secured Funds Program!
View site in English,
Español, or Français
The fair-trade ticketing company.
Sign Me Up!
|
Log In
Go
Forget your login?
Find An Event
Create Your Event
Help
PLAYBACK > AudioBus: Christopher Willits
Route: Golden Gate Park / Station: Everybody BikesSan Francisco, CA
Share this event:
Get Tickets
There are no active dates for this event.
Powered by   Advance sales have ended. Tickets will be available at the bus station day of show: Everybody Bikes, 1288 15th Ave (@Irving) from 7pm-7:45pm sunset tour, and 8pm-8:45pm night tour. Cash and Visa, MC, Amex, Discover accepted.
Not Available
Event
PLAYBACK > AudioBus: Christopher Willits
Sundown Tour: 7:00-7:30p Check-in, 7:45p Boarding, 8:00p DepartureNight Tour: 8:00-8:30p Check-in, 8:45p Boarding, 9:00p DepartureRoute: Golden Gate Park/Ocean BeachCreated in 2008, AudioBus is a moving live concert venue on an open-top double decker bus, giving audiences an adventurous sonic experience where musicians compose their own San Francisco route and perform live scores to the scenery moving past them. On July 30th hop on the Christopher Willits (http://christopherwillits.com/) tour as he guides you through the wonderland of  Golden Gate Park onto Ocean Beach as he performs with dreamy vibrations and electric reverberations. Double-decker buses are vintage UK-imported open-top biodiesel buses with installed Sennheiser headphones provided for audiences. Sponsored in part by CitySightseeing San Francisco.CHRISTOPHER WILLITS"Christopher Willits creates patterns of vibrations with sound and light. He occupies a unique corner of the electronic-art-music universehovering above the intersection of electronic production's nuts and bolts, new media art, and a wide-open creative mind. "I am a conduit of the process, a kind of gardener," he says. "I simply imagine, intuit, respond and do the work laid before me." Willits' tireless responding and doing and working has produced 20 albums in 10 yearssolo and in collaboration with artists including Ryuichi Sakamoto, Matmos, Zach Hill, and Taylor Deupreeand an organic, multi-faceted sound that expands like the vines of an electro-acoustic kudzu plant. Christopher Willits is a teacher, a label owner (the experimental hub Overlap.org), a meditator, a tech geek, a visual/new media artist, and virtuosic musician in one. In other words, there's no one out there quite like him." http://overlap.org/ PLAYBACK is ME'DI.ATE Art Group's (www.me-di-ate.net) special fundraising series that showcases our most acclaimed events and raises money for our newly incorporated non-profit. Our goal is to raise $10,000 to be able to continue supporting artists and creating innovative exhibitions and events, including our biennial Soundwave Festival (www.projectsoundwave.com). PLAYBACK is presented in partnership with City Sightseeing San Francisco (http://www.city-sightseeing.us/), National Park Service (http://www.nps.gov/) and ARUP (http://www.arup.com/) and curated by Alan So and Jorge Bachmann.PLAYBACK Single Tickets$20-$200 - General Sliding Scale to Sponsor Levels (Discount for Students)Sponsor Level 1 - $50**Includes Soundwave gift, raffle ticket and partial tax-deductionSponsor Level 2 - $100**Includes preferred seating, 2 free tickets to one Soundwave ((5)) event, Soundwave gift pack, 5 raffle tickets and is $65 tax-deductibleSponsor Level 3 - $200**Includes premier seating, free access pass to all Soundwave ((5)) events, Soundwave gift pack, 10 raffle tickets for prizes, and is $150 tax-deductiblePLAYBACK All Access Pass (To All 5 PLAYBACK Events): http://www.brownpapertickets.com/event/184174**Tickets are very limited due to the intimate nature of the events.
LocationRoute: Golden Gate Park / Station: Everybody Bikes
1288 15th Ave
San Francisco, CA 94122
United States
Categories
Arts > Performance
Music > cxvb
Music > Experimental
Arts
Music
Kid Friendly: Yes!
Contact
Owner: MEDIATE Art Group
On BPT Since: Apr 30, 2008
ME'DI.ATE Network
www.me-di-ate.net/playback...
Ask a question...
Ask!
Contact us
Email
support@brownpapertickets.com
Phone
1-800-838-3006 (Temporarily Unavailable)
Resources
Developers
Help
Ticket Buyers
Track Your Order
Browse Events
Locations
Event Producers
Create an Event
Pricing
Services
Buy Pre-Printed Tickets
The Venue List
Find out about local events
Get daily or weekly email notifications of new and discounted events in your neighborhood.
Sign up for local events
Connect with us
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on X
Follow us on Instagram
Watch us on YouTube
Get to know us
Use of this service is subject to the Terms of Usage, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy of Brown Paper Tickets.
All rights reserved.
© 2000-2025
Mobile EN ES FR