Henry VIII: Miscellaneous, 1532 | British History Online
Skip to main content
BHO | British History Online
Main navigation
Search
Browse Catalogue
Subject guides
Using BHO
About
Log in
News
Login
Login
Register
Breadcrumb
Home
Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, Henry VIII
Henry VIII: Miscellaneous, 1532
Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, Henry VIII, Volume 5, 1531-1532.
Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1880.
This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved.
Citation:
BHO
Chicago
MLA
'Henry VIII: Miscellaneous, 1532', in Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, Henry VIII, Volume 5, 1531-1532, ed.  James Gairdner (London,  1880), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/letters-papers-hen8/vol5/pp700-746 [accessed 26 March 2025].
'Henry VIII: Miscellaneous, 1532', in Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, Henry VIII, Volume 5, 1531-1532. Edited by   James Gairdner (London,  1880), British History Online,  accessed March 26, 2025,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/letters-papers-hen8/vol5/pp700-746.
"Henry VIII: Miscellaneous, 1532". Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, Henry VIII, Volume 5, 1531-1532. Ed.  James Gairdner (London, 1880), British History Online. Web. 26 March 2025. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/letters-papers-hen8/vol5/pp700-746.
Prev Page |
Next Page
Prev |
Next
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Image
Footnotes
Miscellaneous, 1532
R. O.
1694. Commissions Of The Peace.
A book containing the names of the justices of assize on the different
circuits and justices of the peace for the different counties, [for the 24th (fn. 1)
year of Henry VIII.]
i. Justices of Assize :
Home Circuit : Sir Thos. Inglefeld and Chr. Hales, attorney general.
Norfolk Circuit : Sir Rob. Norwiche and Sir Ric. Lister.
Oxford Circuit : Sir John Porte, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law.
Western Circuit : Sir John FitzJames and Sir Will. Shelley.
Midland Circuit : Sir Humph. Conyngesby and Sir Ant. Fitzherbert.
Northern Circuit : Sir John Spelman and John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law.
ii. Commissions of the Peace :
Beds : Sir Thos. Audeley, keeper of the Great Seal, Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles
duke of Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Lincoln, Will. prior of St. John's of
Jerusalem in England, Edmund lord Bray, John lord Mordaunt, Sir Rob. Norwiche, Sir
Ric. Lyster, Sir Henry Grey, Sir Fras. Bryan, Sir John Russell, sen., Sir John Seynt
John, Sir Will. Gascoign, Sir Mich. Fyssher, Walter Luke, serjeant-at-law, John Gostwyke,
Thos. Fitzhugh, Nich. Hardyng, and Simon Fytz.
Bucks : Sir Thos. Audeley, keeper of the Great Seal, Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles
duke of Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Lincoln, Will. prior of St. John's of
Jerusalem in England, Andrew lord Windsor, Edmund lord Bray, John lord Mordaunt,
Sir Rob. Norwiche, Sir Ric. Lyster, Sir John Daunce, Sir Francis Brian, Sir John Russell,
sen., Sir Will. Gascoign, Sir Edw. Donne, Sir Rob. Lee, John Baldwyn, serjeant-at-law,
Edmund Pekham, John Cheyny, Thos. Denton, Edmund Molyneux, Paul Darell, Geo.
Bolstrode, Roger Gifford, Ric. Brute, and Ric. Hampden.
Berks : Sir Thos. Audeley, keeper of the Great Seal, Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles
duke of Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Hugh abbot of Reading, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir John Porte, Sir Thos. Inglefeld, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law, Sir John
Daunce, Sir Ric. Weston, Sir Will. Essex, Sir Anthony Hungerford, John Cheny,
Humphrey Foster, Edw. Fetiplace, Thos. Warde, Walter Chalcote, John Latton, Ric.
Stafferton, Hen. Brigges, and Will. Hyde.
Cornwall : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Hen. marquis of Exeter, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Exeter, Sir John Fitzjames,
Sir Will. Shelley, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir John Arundell de la Hern, Sir Piers
Eggecombe, Sir Ric. Greynvile, Sir John Chamond, John Arundell, son of Sir John
Arundell, John Densill, serjeant-at-law, John Arundell of Talfern, sen., Hugh Trevanyon,
Will. Godolghan, Christopher Tredennek, Ric. Eggecombe, Rob. Vyvian, Ric. Penrose,
Will. Lowre, Hen. Trecarell, Thos. Seyntabyn, Will. Carnyshewe, Rob. Langdon, John
Tregean, Thos. Chamound, Humphrey Trevilian, and Nic. Carmynowe.
Cumberland : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Henry earl of Northumberland, Henry earl of Cumberland, J. bp.
of Carlisle, William lord Dacre of Gillesland, Christopher lord Conyers, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir John Spelman, John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law, Thos. Magnus, clk.,
Sir Thos. Clifford, Sir Will. Parre, Sir Thos. Tempest, Sir Thos. Wharton, Sir John
Lowdre, Sir Will. Musgrave, Rob. Bowes, Geoffrey Lancastre, Ric. Barwys, Will. Bentley,
Ric. Irton, and Will. Lancastre.
Cambridgeshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, N. bp. of Ely, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Rob.
Norwiche, Sir Ric. Lyster, Sir Michael Fyssher, Sir Rob. Payton, Sir Thos. Elyott, Sir
Giles Alyngton, John Hynde, serjeant-at-law, Philip Parys, John More, Thos. Checheley,
Thos. Megge, Thos. Hutton, Rob. Tylney, Thos. Rudston, Thos. Castell, and Christopher
Burgoyn.
Derbyshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Will lord Mountjoye. Francis lord
Talbott, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Humphrey Conyngesby, Sir Anthony Fitzherbert,
Sir John Porte, Sir Godfrey Fuljambe, Sir Roger Mynours, Sir Hen. Sacheverell,
Sir Thos. Cokayn, Sir Anthony Babyngton, Matthew Knyston, German Poole, Thos.
Curson, Ric. Curson, Arthur Aire, Edw. Aire, Geo. Fyndern, and Ralph Sacheverell.
Devon : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Henry
marquis of Exeter, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Exeter, John lord Fitzwaren, John
lord Zouche, Sir John Fitzjames, Sir Will. Shelley, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Will.
Courteney, Sir Peter Eggecombe, Sir Edw. Pomerey, Sir Will. Carewe, Sir John Fulford,
Sir John Chamound, Sir Ric. Greynvile, Sir Thos. Stukeley, Sir Philip Champernon,
John Rowe, serjeant-at-law, Roger Yorke, serjeant-at-law, Baldwin Malett, John Gilbert,
Bartholomew Fortescue, Andrew Hillarsden, Ric. Eggecombe, Ric. Hals, Hugh Pollard,
Alex. Woode, Ric. Yerde, Rob. Chudeley, John Forde, Hen. Walronde, Ric. Pollard, and
Will. Rowpe.
Dorsetshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Hen. lord Montague, John lord Audeley, John lord Fitzwaren,
Edw. lord Stourton, Hen. lord Daubhey, Sir John Fitzjames, Sir Will. Shelley, Sir Will.
Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Giles Strangewayes, Sir Will. Stourton, Sir Thos. Trenchard, Sir
John Rogers, Sir Edw. Willoughby, Sir Thos. Moore of Mylplesshe, John Horsey, sen.,
Will. Uvedale, John Rogers, jun., John Orenge, Will. Hody, Nic. Willoughby, John
Horsey, jun., Hen. Assheley, and Hen. Strangwaies.
Essex : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Thos.
earl of Wiltshire. John earl of Oxford. Hen. earl of Essex. Thos. earl of Rutland. Thos.
earl of Sussex, Will, prior of St. John's of Jerusalem in England, Hen. lord Morley, Sir
Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Thos. abbot of Colchester, Sir Rob. Norwiche, Sir Thos. Inglefeld,
Christopher Hales, attorney general, Sir Brian Tuke, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, sen., Sir Roger
Wentworth, Sir Giles Capell, Sir Thos. Seymour, Sir Will. Pyrton, Thos. Crumwell,
Humph. Broun, serjeant-at-law, Roger Cholmeley, serjeant-at-law, Humph. Wyngfeld,
John Seyntclere, Will. West, Edw. Tyrell, John Tyrell, Thos. Darcy, Anthony Darcy,
Edw. Grene, John Gatys, John Broun, Rob. Mordaunt, Ric. Riche, Ric. Higham, Bartholomew
Prowse, Thos. Tey, Guy Crayford.
York, East Riding : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Cuthbert bp. of Durham, Hen. earl of Northumberland,
Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Thos. earl of Rutland, Hen. earl of Cumberland, Thos. lord
Darcy, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir John Spelman, John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law,
Brian Higden, dean of York, Thos. Magnus, clk., Sir Geo. Darcy, Sir Ric. Tempest, Sir
Ralph Evre, Sir Will. Evres, Sir Rob. Constable, Sir Ralph Ellerker, jun., Sir Rob. Aske,
Sir John Constable of Holdernes, Sir Will. Constable, Sir Peter Vavasour, Sir Marmaduke
Constable, sen., Sir Marmaduke Constable, jun., Sir Geo. Lawson, Sir Francis Bigod,
Thos. Fairfax, serjeant-at-law, Rob. Bowes, Christopher Hilzard, Will. Babthorp, Ric.
Smetheley, Rob. Creike of Beverley.
York, West Riding : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke
of Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Cuthbert bp. of Durham, Hen. earl of Northampton,
Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Thos. earl of Rutland, Hen. earl of Cumberland, Christopher
lord Conyers, Thos. lord Darcy, Francis lord Talbott, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir
Ric. Lyster, Sir John Spelman, John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law, Brian Higden, dean, &c.,
Sir Geo. Darcy, Sir Will. Gascoign, of Calthorpe, sen., Sir Ric. Tempest, Sir Will. Evres,
Sir Thos. Wentworth, Sir Will. Middelton, Sir Rob. Nevell, Sir Will. Malyverey, Sir
Geo. Lawson, Thos. Fairfax, serjeant-at-law, John Norton, Brian Hastynges, Rob. Bowes,
Will. Babthorp, Will. Copley, Rob. Chaloner, John Polleyn, Thos. Grice, Thos. Grene,
and John Lambart.
York, North Riding : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke
of Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Cuthbert bp. of Durham, Hen. earl of Northumberland,
Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Thos. earl of Rutland, Hen. earl of Cumberland, Christopher
lord Conyers, Thos. lord Darcy, Francis lord Talbott, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir John
Spelman, John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law, Brian Higden, dean, &c., Thos. Magnus, clk.,
Sir Geo. Darcy, Sir Ric. Tempest, Sir Thos. Tempest, Sir Ralph Evres, Sir Will. Evres,
Sir Will. Middleton, Sir John Nevell, Sir Marmaduke Constable, Sir Edw. Gower, Sir
Geo. Lawson, Sir James Metcalf, Thos. Fairfax, serjeant-at-law, Rob. Bowes, John Norton,
Roger Lassels, Will. Rokeby, John Pulleyn, Rob. Mennell.
Gloucestershire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Exeter, C. bp. of Hereford, Walter lord Ferrers,
Thos. lord Berkeley,  abbot of Gloucester, J. abbot of Cirencester, Hen. abbot of
Tewkesbury, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir John Porte, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law,
James Denton, clk., Sir Will. Kyngston, Sir Ant. Poyntz, Sir Edmund Tame, Sir
Thos. Cornewaill, Sir Edw. Crofte, Sir Will. Morgan, Sir Will. Denys, Sir John Brigges,
Sir Christopher Baynham, Sir Ant. Hungerford, Sir John Russell, John Salter, Geo.
Bromeley, John Pakyngton, Rowland Morton, Nic. Wykes, Rob. Witney, Leonard Poole,
John Arnold, Rob. Wye, Thos. Matson, David Brooke, James Clifford, Thos. Lane, and
Thos. Whityngdon.
Huntingdonshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, N. bp. of Ely, J. bp. of Lincoln, John lord Husey, John
lord Mordaunt, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Rob. Norwiche, Sir Ric. Lister, Sir John
Russell, sen., Sir Will. Husey, Sir John Seyntjohn, Sir Will. Gascoign, Sir Laurence
Taillard, Walter Luke, serjeant-at-law, John Hynde, serjeant-at-law, Edw. Mountague,
serjeant-at-law, Ric. Sapcote, John Castell, Thos. Hall, Thos. Lowth, Thos. Megge,
Thos. Wavton, and Thos. Downold.
Hertfordshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Hen. earl of Essex, Thos. earl of Rutland, J. bp. of Lincoln,
Hen. lord Morley, Will. lord Mountjoye, Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir Thos. Inglefeld,
Christopher Hales, attorney general, Sir John Russell, sen., Sir Giles Capell, Sir Griffin
Donne, Sir Thos. Seymour, Sir Philip Butler, Thos. Perient, sen., Will. Purdewe, John
Brokett, John Bassyngburn, John Bolles, Geo. Hyde, Edw. Brokett, John Perient, jun.,
Humph. Fitzherbert, John Conyngesby, Thos. Knyghton, John Gill, Ric. Baron, and
Rob. Dacres.
Herefordshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Exeter, C. bp. of Hereford, Walter lord Ferrers, Sir John
Porte, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law, James Denton, clk., Gamaliel Clifton, clk., Sir
Will. Morgan, Sir Thos. Cornewaill, Sir Roger Mynours, Sir Ric. Cornewaill, Michael
Lyster, James Baskervile, Thos. Baskervile, John Russel, John Salter, Geo. Bromley,
John Skudamore, Rowland Moreton, Thos. Monyngton, Thos. Bodenham, Nic. Chippenham,
Roland Bruge, Ric. Warmecombe, and Will. Clynton.
Kent : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Hen.
marquis of Exeter, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Rochester, Will. prior of St. John's
of Jerusalem in England, Geo. Nevell lord Burgevenny, Geo. Brooke lord Cobham, Sir
Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Thos. Inglefeld, Christopher Hales, attorney general, Sir Hen.
Wiatt, Sir Thos. Nevell, Sir Thos. Cheyny, Sir Edw. Guldeford, Sir Edw. Nevell, Sir
Will. Crowmer, Sir John Fogge, Sir Ric. Walden, Sir Edw. Wotton, Sir Will. Hawte,
Sir John Norton, Sir John Scott, Sir Alex. Culpeper, Sir Edw. Ryngeley, Sir Will.
Fynche, John Hales, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law, Thos. Crumwell, Hen. Norreis,
Geo. Guldeford, Will. Kempe, John Baker, James Walsyngham, Thos. Woode, John
Colman, Anthony Seyntleger, jun., Hen. Fane, Will. Rooper, Will. Walsyngham, James
Pekham, Edw. Boveton, Will. Draper, John Crips, John Crowmer, Edw. Monyn, Thos.
Willesford, Thos. Roydon, Will. Goldewell, Will. Marten, Edw. Thwaytes, Walter Hendeley,
Rob. Meycote, and John Culpeper.
Linc., Kesteven : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Thos. earl of Rutland, John lord Husey, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir Anthony Fitzherbert, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
sen., Sir John Thymolby, Edmund Busshey, Rob. Husey, Francis Hall, Rob. Broun,
Francis Brown, Thos. Hall, Thos. Halgh, Ant. Missenden, Thos. Brudenell, Thos. Gildon,
and Ric. Ogle.
Linc., Lindsey : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Thos. earl of Rutland, J. bp. of Lincoln, John lord
Husey, Thos. lord Burgh, Geo. Hennege, dean of Lincoln, Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir
Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir Rob. Dymmoke, Sir Christopher Willoughby, Sir Rob. Tyrwhite,
Sir Will. Askue, Sir Andrew Billesby, Edw. Burgh, Will. Skipwith, Thos. Hennege,
Will. Tyrwhite, John Mounson, John Seyntpoole, Will. Gardyner, Will. Sandon, John
Goderike, John Coppledyke, Edw. Forman, Thos. Dymmoke, John Littelbury, Ant.
Missenden, Thos. Missenden, John Hennege, Thos. Halgh, Nic. Girlyngton, Thos. Gildon,
Edw. Madyson, Edw. Dalison, and John Hall.
Linc., Holland : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Thos. earl of Rutland, J. bp. of Lincoln, John lord Husey,
Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir Will.
Fitzwilliam, sen., Thos. Hennege, Francis Broun, John Littelbury, John Meres, Rob.
a Price, Thos. Tempest, John Hennege, Ant. Eyrby, Thos. Gildon, Nic. Roberdson, Thos.
Holland, John Hall, John Coppledike, Thos. Halgh, Ric. Reede, Rob. Pulvertoft, Thos.
Broun, and John Tamworth.
Leicestershire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Thos. earl of Rutland, Geo. earl of
Huntingdon, J. bp. of Lincoln, Sir Leonard Grey, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Humph.
Conyngesby, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir Ric. Sacheverell, Sir John Digby, Sir Will.
Skevyngton, Sir Thos. Pulteney, Sir Everard Dygby, Sir Will. Turvile, Roger Wigston,
Thos. Hasilrigge, Will. Assheby, Will. Legh, Edw. Warner, Thos. Trye, Thos. Harvy,
Thos. Brokesby, Nic. Jakson, John Fowler, John Beamount, Roger Ratclyffe. (fn. 2)
Middlesex : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Thos. earl of Rutland, Will. prior of St. John's, Andrew lord
Windsor, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Thos. Inglefeld, Sir John Spelman, Christopher
Hales, attorney general, Sir John Daunce, Sir Thos. Nevell, Sir Brian Tuke, Sir John
Aleyn, John Hales, Thos. Crumwell, John Denysell, serjeant-at-law, Roger Cholmeley.
serjeant-at-law, Ralph Pexsall, John Skewes, John Broun, John Pakyngton, Hen.
White, Rob. Wrothe, Rob. Elryngton, Rob. Cheseman, John Newdigate, John Palmer,
and Thos. Robertes.
Northamptonshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Lincoln, Will. prior of St. John's, John lord
Zouche, Thos. Vaux lord Harowdon, Sir Ric. Grey, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Humph.
Conyngesby, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, sen., Sir John Russell, sen., Sir
Will. Parre, Sir Will. Gascoign, Sir Thos. Tressham, Edmund Knyghtley, serjeant-at-law,
Edw. Mountague, serjeant-at-law, Thos. Griffith, Ric. Knyghtley, Ant. Ralegh, Thos.
Brokesby, Ric. Tressham, Thos. Brudenell, John Hasylwoode, Will. Newenham, Edw.
Warner, John Lane, Thos. Lovett, Will. Saunders, and Rob. Chauntrell.
Notts : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Thos.
earl of Wiltshire, Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Thos. earl of Rutland, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir Will. Meryng, Sir Will. Perpoynt,
Sir Brian Stapleton, Sir John Markham, Sir John Byron, Sir John Willoughby, Sir Ant.
Babyngton, Will. Clerkson, John Babyngton, John Hercy, Edmund Molyneux, Roger
Grenall, Thos. Meryng, and Will. Waryner.
Norfolk : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Rob. earl of Sussex, R. bp. of Norwich, N. bp. of Ely, Sir John
Bourghchier lord Berners, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Rob. Norwiche, Sir Ric. Lyster,
Sir John Spelman, Sir James Boleyn, Sir Roger Townesende, Sir Will. Paston, Sir Philip
Calthorp, Sir John Heydon, Sir John Shelton, Sir Thos. Benyngfeld, Sir Edmund Benyngfeld,
Sir Thos. Straunge, Sir Francis Lovell, Will. Elys, Christopher Jenney, serjeant-at-law,
Rob. Holdyche, Edmund Wyndeham, John Tyndale, Ric. Suthewell, John Robsart,
Roger Woodehouse, Will. Conyngesby, Francis Moundeforde, Will. Yelverton, sen.,
Walter Hubberd, Rob. Townesend, Nic. Hare, and Rob. Curson.
Northumberland : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of
Suffolk, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Hen. earl of Northumberland, Ralph earl of Westmorland,
Hen. earl of Cumberland, Will. lord Dacre of Gillesland, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun.,
Sir John Spelman, John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law, Thos. Percy, Ingram Percy, Thos.
prior of Durham, Thos. Magnus, clk., Sir Thos. Clifford, Sir Thos. Tempest, Sir Christopher
Dacre, Sir Will. Hilton, Sir Will. Heron, Sir Thos. Wharton, Sir Ralph Fenwyke,
Sir John Hern of Chepchese, Sir Will. Ogle, Cuthbert Radcliff, Roger Lassels, John
Norton, Rob. Bowes, Thos. Horseley, Lionel Grey, John Bedenell, Rob. Mennyll,
Rob. Claveryng, Rob. Colyngewoode of Esselyngton, Thos. Strangways, and John
Bentley.
Oxfordshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Will. prior of St. John's, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir John
Porte, Sir Thos. Inglefeld, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law, Sir John Daunce, Sir Adrian
Fortescue, Sir Will. Barentyne, Sir Edw. Chamberleyn, Sir Simon Harecourte, Sir Walter
Stoner, Sir Rob. Lee, Sir Ant. Hungerford, Sir Thos. Elyott, Humph. Foster, Will.
Fermour, John More, Thos. Denton, John Osbaldeston, John Busterd, John Brome, Ant.
Coope, Ric. Weynman, and Geoffrey Dormer.
Rutland : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Thos.
earl of Wiltshire, Thos. earl of Rutland, J. bp. of Lincoln, John lord Zouche, Sir Will.
Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir John Dygby, Sir
Everard Digby, Edw. Mountague, serjeant-at-law, Ric. Sapcotes, John Haryngton, Francis
Broun, Thos. Brudenell, David Cecill, and Simon Swafeld.
Surrey : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Hen.
marquis of Exeter, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Thos. earl of Rutland, J. bp. of Rochester, Sir
Edmund Howard, Will, prior of St. John's, Sir Geo. Nevell lord Burgevenny, Edmund
lord Bray, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Ric. abbot of Bermondsey, Sir Thos. Inglefeld,
Sir Will. Shelley, Christopher Hales, attorney general, Sir Ric. Weston, Sir Thos. Nevell,
Sir Hen. Wyatt, Sir Nic. Carewe, Sir John Gage, Sir Brian Tuke, Sir John Dudley,
Sir John Aleyn, Sir Matthew Broun, Sir John Gaynsford, John Scott, Thos. Crumwell,
Ralph Pexsall, John Russell, Christopher Moore, Rob. Wyntershull, Thos. Lysle, Thos.
Stydall, Will. Westbrooke, John Skynner, Ralph Vyne, John Mores, John Danestre and
Will. Muschampe, Thos. Hennedg, (fn. 3) Sir Ant. Brown, (fn. 3) Sir Ric. Page. (fn. 3)
Staffordshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Chas. duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, Sir Will. Blounte lord Mountjoye,
Walter lord Ferrers, Francis lord Talbott, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., James Denton, clk.,
Sir John Porte, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law, Sir John Talbott,
Sir Lewis Bagott, Sir John Gifford, Walter Wrottesley, Geo. Greysley, Will. Bassett,
John Salter, Geo. Bromeley, John Vernon, John Draycote, Edw. Aston, Edw. Littleton,
Thos. Gifford, Will. Horwoode, Thos. Shrympeshire, John Grosvenour, Thos. Moreton, and
Ric. Selman.
Shropshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Will. earl of Arundel, Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, J. bp. of Exeter,
C. bp. of Hereford, Walter lord Ferrers, [Francis lord Talbott,] Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir John Porte, [Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, (fn. 4) ] Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law, James
Denton, clk., Sir John Talbott, [Sir Lewis Bagott, John Gifford,] Sir Edw. Crofte, Sir
Will. Morgan, John Salter, Geo. Bromeley, Ric. Hoorde, Thos. Bromeley, Rob. Nedam,
Thos. Lakyn, Ric. Foster, Ric. Selman, Francis Yong, and Thos. Newporte.
Hampshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Bath and Wells, T. bp. of Bangor, Arthur viscount Lysle,
Sir Edmund Howard, Will. prior of St. John's, Hen. lord Mountague, John lord Audeley,
Will. lord Sandys, Sir John Fitzjames, Sir Ric. Lyster, Sir Will. Shelley, Sir Will.
Fitzwilliam, jun., Sir Will. Paulet, Sir Geoffrey Poole, Sir Ric. Sandys, Sir James
Worseley, Sir Will. Gifford, Sir Geo. Puttenham, Sir Rob. Wallopp, Sir Peter Filpott,
Sir Lionel Norreis, Edmund Mervyn, serjeant-at-law, Ric. Andrewes, James Bettys,
Ric. Palshide, Stephen Coope, Rob. Bulkeley, Nic. Tychebourn, Hen. White, Ant.
Wyndesore, Will. Hawles, and John Wyntershull.
Suffolk : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, John earl of Oxford, Rob. earl of Sussex, R. bp. of Norwich,
N. bp. of Ely, Thos. lord Wentworth, Rob. lord Curson, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., John
abbot of Bury St. Edmund's, Sir Rob. Norwiche, Sir Ric. Lyster, Sir Rob. Drury, Sir
Christopher Willoughby, Sir Arthur Hopton, Sir Ant. Wyngfeld, Sir Philip Tylney,
Sir John Henyngham, Sir Thos. Tyrrell of Gippyng, Sir Thos. Tey, Sir Will. Rowse,
Sir John Cornewales, John Sulyerd, Edw. Cockett, Humph. Wyngfeld, Will. Waldegrave,
jun., John Jernegan, John Sprynge, Lionel Talmage, Thos. Barnardeston, Geo. Colt,
Rob. Crane, Thos. Russhe, John Harvy of Oulton, Edmund Lee, Rob. Reynold, son of
Rob. Reynold, sen., Clement Higham, Hen. Hubberd, and Will. Drury.
Somerset : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Hen. marquis of Exeter, Thos. earl of Wiltshire, J. bp. of Bath and Wells, W. bp.
Majorensis, Hen. lord Mountague, John lord Audeley, John lord Fitzwaren, Edw. lord
Stourton, Hen. lord Daubeney, Sir John Fitzjames, Sir Will. Shelley, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir Will. Paulett, Sir Will. Stourton, Sir Nic. Wadham, Sir Hen. Longe,
Sir Andrew Lutterell, Sir Ant. Hungerford, Sir John Seyntlowe, Roger Yorke, serjeant-at-law,
Baldwin Malett, John Stowell, Thos. Speke, Hugh Paulett, Hen. Capell, Thos.
Clerke, John Newton, Will. Porteman, John Fitzjames, jun., John Horsey, Hugh Malett,
Thos. Jubbes, Will. Vowell, James Hadley, Hen. Thorneton, John Cave, and John
Porter.
Sussex : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Will. earl of Arundel, Hen. earl of Northumberland, R. bp. of
Chichester, Arthur Viscount Lysle, Hen. lord Mountague, Sir Geo. Nevell lord Burgevenny,
Sir Thos. West lord de la Ware, Sir Thos. Fynes lord Dacre, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun.,
Sir Ric. Lister, Sir Thos. Inglefeld, Sir Will. Shelley, Christopher Hales, attorney general,
Rob. prior of Lewes, Sir Thos. Nevell, Sir John Dudeley, John Hales, Sir David Owen,
Sir John Gage, Sir Edw. Nevell, Sir Geoffrey Poole, Sir Alex. Culpeper, Sir Roger
Copley, Sir Hen. Owen, Sir Will. Pelham, Sir John Dawtrey, Sir Ric. Shirley, Sir Edw.
Braye, Sir Will. Goryng, Ant. Wyndesore, John Sakevile, Hen. Darell, Ric. Covert,
Giles Fenys, Ric. Devenysshe, Thos. Thetcher, Ric. Sakevile, Will. Skardevile, John
Shelley, Will. Erneley, Walter Hendley, John Covert, John Palmer, John Parker,
John Stanney, Thos. Shirley, Will. Waller, Edw. Scotte, Will. Staple, and Nic.
Tufton.
Westmoreland : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Hen. earl of Northumberland, Ralph earl of Westmoreland, Hen.
earl of Cumberland, J. bp. of Carlisle, Will. lord Dacre of Gillesland, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam,
jun., Sir John Spelman, John Baldewyn, serjeant-at-law, Thos. Magnus clk.,
Sir Christopher Dacre, Sir Thos. Clifford, Sir Will. Parre, Sir Rob. Belyngham, Sir Thos.
Tempest, Sir John Lowther, Sir Edw. Musgrave, Sir Thos. Wharton, Geoffrey Lancastre,
Rob. Bowes, Ric. Redmayn, Thos. Sandford, Lancelot Salkeld, Rowland Thorneborowe,
Geoffrey Middleton, Ambrose Middleton, Thos. Musgrave, jun., Lancelot Lowther, Will.
Lancastre, John Warcope, Thos. Blenkynsope, John Lambert, sen., Ric. Dukett, Thos.
Wharton, and Gilbert Wharton.
Wilts : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk, Thos.
earl of Wiltshire, Hen. lord Mountague, Edw. lord Stourton, John lord Audeley, Sir John
Fitzjames, Sir Ric. Lyster, Sir Will. Shelley, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Ric. abbot of
Malmesbury, Sir Will. Paulett, Sir John Bourghchier, Sir John Seymer, Sir Hen. Longe,
Sir Will. Stourton, Sir Edw. Baynton, Will. Essex, Sir Edmund Tame, Sir John Brigges,
Sir Ant. Hungerford, Sir Edw. Seymour, Roger Yorke, serjeant-at-law, Walter Hungerford,
Ric. Hilley, clk., Rob. Baynard, Ant. Stilman, John Erneley, Will. Ludlowe, Thos.
Apprice, Edmund Mompesson, Bartholomew Husey, Hen. Poole, Charles Bulkeley, Rob.
Wye, and John Pye.
Worcestershire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Will. earl of Arundel, Geo. earl of Shrewsbury, J. bp. of Exeter,
Walter lord Ferrers, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun., Clement abbot of Evesham, Will. prior
of Worcester, Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir John Porte, Thos. Willoughby, serjeant-at-law,
James Denton, clk., Sir Edw. Crofte, Sir Will. Morgan, Sir Gilbert Talbott, Sir
Thos. Cornewaill, Sir Geo. Throkmerton, Sir John Russell, John Salter, Geo. Bromeley,
John Russell, John Skudamore, Thos. Nevell, Roger Wynter, Rowland Moreton, John
Walshe, John Littelton, John Pakyngton, Will. Nevell, Rob. Wye, John Ketilbye, Will.
Gower, and Will. Sheldon.
Warwickshire : Sir Thos. Audeley, &c., Thos. duke of Norfolk, Charles duke of Suffolk,
Thos. earl of Wiltshire, Will, prior of St. John's, Sir Will. Fitzwilliam, jun.,  abbot
of Kelyngworth, Sir Humph. Conyngesby, Sir Ant. Fitzherbert, Sir John Dudeley, Sir
Geo. Throkmerton, Sir Edw. Ferrers, Sir John Willoughby, Sir Edw. Willoughby, Roger
Wigston, Will. Legh, Will. Boughton, Will. Feldyng, Thos. Trye, Thos. Spenser, Reynold
Digby, John Grevill, Thos. Ardern, Humph. Dymmoke, Simon Mountford, Edw. Conwey,
John Waldiffe, Will. Willyngton, Thos. Holt, Baldwin Porter, Ric. Willis, Ric. Fulwoode,
and Francis Slade.
*** The names of justices of the quorum are indicated throughout by the letter "q" in the
margin.
R. O.
1695. Confession of Tristram Teshe.
Being examined by Mr. Wm. Berker, mayor of York, (fn. 5) by virtue of
the King's commission, on a charge of embezzling certain goods of John
Pollerde, he declares that in the 18th year of the King, when Mr. Thos.
Mayson was mayor, the said John Pollerde being informed against by a
servant, as Teshe supposes, was put to much trouble by Mr. Geo. Gaille, then
master of the King's mint at York, and Master William Holgill, general
surveyor to Thos. late Cardinal and Archbishop, to give sureties of 200l.
that he should in his own person make answer to the said lord Cardinal and
his Council before a certain day. Teshe was one of his sureties, John
Appylyard was another; but Appylyard refused to be bound unless Pollerde
obtained other sureties to save him harmless, and Teshe allowed himself to
be bound in another obligation of 60l. to Appilyerde. For his security
again, Pollerde delivered to Teshe, "a paunte and pledge" in money and
plate to the value of 86l. On the expiry of the obligations, as nothing was
laid against Pollerde, they were cancelled by Master William Holgill, and
delivered up to Teshe, who thereupon returned to Pollerde the said "paunte"
and pledge. Denies having received goods of Pollerde otherwise, or having
embezzled any. Never knew that Pollerde or his goods were attached.
Signed, "Per me Tristamum  Teshe," with a flourish between the Christian
and surname.
P. 1, broad sheet. Endd.
R. O.
1696. Depredations At Sea.
"1532.Here followeth the confessions of certain Bryttons that were
taken and robbed by certain English."
Nic. Barbe of St. Malo's, master of a balinger called the Mychell; Hayman
Gollard, owner. This ship was taken on suspicion and robbed by these men
following. Five Scots and 9 Bretons were in her. Balingers called the Vallantyn
of Kenton, Simon Jeylles master, the Trynyte Prowys of Keynton,
Phil. Selby, Master, and one of Plymouth, Thos. Eayr master; with other
balingers of the same quarter. "We found this Byrton ship at sea laden
with wool, cloth, and salt hides, and came from Whytthorn in Scotland; and
also we found her with these English men in her; and the Burtons
(Bretons) were put in the English balingers :Richard Brysard of Paynton,
being master of the Burton ship; John Kylford of Tormound," and eight
other Englishmen named, from "Centon," Plymouth, Dawlish, &c., "being
mariners to lead the Byrton ship."
Depositions of Brian Myners, John Barbe, and Pierre Hattyva, of St. Malo's,
and of Thos. Moysor, who say the ship was laden at Bordeaux and Nantes,
sailed at St. Malo's in the middle of May, and discharged their cargo at Whytthorn.
They hailed a great ship off the Lysard, bound for Brassell. The
deponents disagree as to whether the Scots in the ship be merchants and
have wool on board.
Pp. 3.
R. O.
1697. Walter Basset.
Petition to Cromwell, as one of the King's council, by Walter Basset
of St. Andrew's Mylborne, Dorset, carpenter, to have the King's pardon for
the death of Sir Will. Browne, vicar of said place, who had been guilty of
repeated acts of criminal intercourse with his wife. By the mediation of
Sir Roger Banestre, vicar of Hilton, a reconciliation had been effected on
Palm Sunday, when Browne took oath in church to give no more offence;
but on the Friday after Christmas day (which fell upon a Tuesday (fn. 6) ) he was
again found misconducting himself in Basset's house, and a scuffle ensued in
which he was killed.
P. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1698. [Gold?] to Mr. Deryng.
I commend me to you as to my brother unknown in body, but greatly
known in spirit by the devout information of my spiritual sister, dampne Eliz,
Barton, and cannot but love you fervently, knowing by experience that she
neither loyes nor accepts as her familiars any but such as God loves, or at
least such as have a great zeal to godliness. I desire you during your life
to pray daily for me as I shall for you. I was with my said sister and yours
this day se'nnight, when she received letters from you, not with a little
gladness. She was then in health of body, thank God. I intend to be with
her again this day three weeks, and so to be monthly, so long as God shall
please. I promise you, I think every day a year till the month days; "and
that day of her presence (alack for pity) is no day, ne worthy to be called an
hour; but I would that day were turned to so many years as God will that I
shall continue here in this present life." Commend me to father Risbey and
the confessor and the abbess.
"Salutes Risbeum et confessorem et abatissam cum dominis (?)"
Commend me to father Risbey, my lady prioress and others. I have sent
you a piece of figs "de orto" (horto), and another of "reassinge of the sone."
You can send me no better token than a word of your handwriting. My
servant will wait your pleasure. Show nothing to him of the contents of my
letters.
Corrected draft, in Gold's hand, p. 1.
II. [Gold?] to [Eliz. Barton.]
"My lover, my sister, my earthly comfort." Mr. White, my special friend
and yours, was suddenly attacked with his disease last night, and sent for me
about midnight. I continued with him all night. His disease is very strange.
It took him in the fingers' end of his left hand in his sleep; "wherewith he
waked, and was forthwith deadly sick at the heart by the space of a quarter
of an hour, like as he should have swooned. He had it before Christmas,
and then it did hold him by the space of an hour, more grievous than
now. He cannot think what it should be, whether it be a natural (?) as a
beginning of the palsey or of the gout, or else a plague of God. Therefore
he desireth you, for the love of God, to make meekly petition to God for the
knowledge hereof." He was confessed this night, and this morning received
the sacrament. He has sent you now other 4 nobles. I pray you to
write exhorting him to joy in visitations of God. Of the 4 nobles you
sent before, I showed him that you had bestowed 20s. in charitable deeds
while I was with you, and kept but 6s. 8d. to yourself. He said he meant
you should have had it all if it had been your pleasure, and this also. I hear
you have been with Our Lady of Cortopstrete since I was with you. "I
trust ye have then heard news. If I may not now be partaker of them in
writing, I trust in God to be with you this day three weeks." If you have
any knowledge of my brother's petitions, or my lady of Sion's, or of mine, I
pray you write to me. I dined this day with Mr. Wele and his wife. "Ye
be entirely commended from them." Your sister is well. Mr. Deryng sent
special word to her to be acquainted with me, and I have written to him
this day as to my loving friend because he is yours. "Dr. Cranmer,
Mr. Longforthe, atque ..."
Hol., pp. 2. On the back are a number of notes and texts from scripture
in the same hand.
R. O.
1699.  to [Henry Gold].
He must not think him ungrateful for not having written. Much
time has passed without advantage to them in this matter (absque nostro in
hac parte fructu). Their friendship is too ardent to be injured by such a
trifle. "Quid ... tum ex hac re prospectum habere potes qu me nune
ad scribendum impulit." A report had for some time prevailed in college
(apud nos) that you, unlike your former self, had abandoned learning for
pleasure. The writer's affection for him, however, prompted him to admonish
him not to disappoint the expectations that had been formed of him, but act
in a way worthy of his abilities.
Lat., p. 1.
R. O.
1700. W. Longforth to Henry Gold.
"Your friends were importune of me at the last congregation to put
forth your grace," which has been done. It is gotten, cum duabus sermonibus,
uno ad clerum, altero ad crucem Pauli, et cum unica responsione, sic quod non
teniaris (sic) ad ulteriorem residentiam : he may appoint what day he will "to
commence of," and answer a day or two before. Mr. Dr. Cranmer is content
"to dispute to you" what day so ever ye will, but the question must be sent
before Palm Sunday. He has no other leisure but that or Easter week to
study for the determination that he must make of them in a solemn lecture;
he is so much occupied by his reading in divinity and other business. Other
of Gold's friends would have written to him to persuade him to take
his degree, but for the sudden departure of the messenger. Cambridge,
25 March. (fn. 7)
Hol., p. 1. Add. : " ... near to ... or at his benefice,
Aldermary parish; inquire the name at my lady Watts; or if he be not in
London, inquire where it may be delivered, to be shortly sent to him."
Added on the side : "At the sign of the Scomer (?) in Wood Street." This
address is crossed out.
R. O.
1701. William Huett to Henry Gold.
Begs Gold not to be offended at his writing to inquire whether the
plague is increasing at Cambridge, or has abated. Signed : Gulielmus
Huettus, Ypodidasculus Cantabrigie.
Hol., Lat., p. 1. Add. : To the right honorable Master Henry Gold,
master of art in Cambridge.
R. O.
1702. Calais.
"A resolution and determination taken by the King's Highness and
his Council upon such requests as were made unto his Grace by the deputies,
officers, and soldiers of the town and marches of Calais."
1. Although the King, "upon a notable ground and evident matter greatly
charging the council, officers, and rulers of the said town," has by proclamation
restrained the free access of victuallers out of England to Calais,
allowing none to pass without special licence, yet, in consideration for the
inhabitants, who are not to blame, he has devised with his council how to
enlarge this restraint for the weal of the town, restricting at the same time
the liberty of the heads and rulers; viz., the proclamation is to be revoked,
but the deputy and other officers are to be bound in recognisances not to
allow victuals to be conveyed through Calais to the dominions of other
princes, beyond the value of 5s. at a time; so that if there be a superfluity
of victuals in Calais they shall be returned to England. 2. But as the
garner of the town should be always furnished with 1,000 qrs. of corn,
which, owing to the moistness of the air, cannot be kept without changing,
the deputy and five of the council may license its exportation to prevent loss
(provided not more than 200 qrs. a year be exported), they standing bound
to the King in 100l. not to abuse the liberty. 3. Merchandise of all kinds
from other countries may be freely exported, but in case of any scarcity of
victuals the deputy and council with the mayor and aldermen of the town
shall command under a penalty every inhabitant to supply himself by a
certain day with victuals sufficient for him and his household for such time
as shall be thought advisable. Also the King is content that a provision
may be had to avoid strangers out of the town, except certain necessary
persons to be appointed by the King, and none henceforth to be sworn
English before the mayor by the deputy's warrant without a patent from the
King. 4. The officers of Calais and Guisnes shall compel the inhabitants to
learn and speak English for their common speech, binding fathers and
mothers for their children, and masters for their servants, to teach the language,
and suffer them to speak no other.
In Derby's hand. Pp. 6. Endd.
R. O.
2. Another copy. Pp. 4. Endd.
R. O.
1703. Calais.
Remonstrance of the council of Calais touching a book of articles sent
them by the King and his Council in answer to such requests as the council
of Calais made to the King at his last being here :
1. They thank the King for revoking the restraint of victuals made in
England, and restoring to Calais the liberty of conveying provisions thither;
but beg that the deputy and head officers here be not bound by recognizance
to prevent victual brought from England being conveyed to other countries.
This rule could only be enforced by stopping the transit of all commodities;
and if the Picards, who bring cart-loads of flesh and other victuals to market
twice a week, were not allowed to take back beer brewed in Calais, they would
cease to come. Merchants also victual their ships here. Think it should
be sufficient for the King to give plain instructions to the deputy, to be
obeyed under penalty of his displeasure. When there is more than enough
at Calais, it should be sufficient for the deputy to bind himself by promise
not to grant any licence to convey it elsewhere than to England. 2. The
wardens of the garner of Calais demur to the regulation against uttering
any of the corn of the garner into strange parts, as contrary to their
indenture. 3. The council thank the King for the article about free export of
merchandise brought from other countries. Any restraint made by the council
has always been to secure a sufficient supply to every man for his own house.
4. Think the provision for avoiding strangers very good, but difficulties may
arise from marriages between English persons and strangers, and the children
claiming to be English. 5. Approve of the article for compelling the
inhabitants to learn and speak English; but there may be difficulty in bringing
it about. Think the benefices, of which a list, hereto annexed, has been
delivered to them by the commissary, should be given to Englishmen only,
that there should be no preaching except in English, and that the schools
should be kept by them entirely.
ii. "New additions."
They recommend further :1, a reformation of the usage by which the
constable of the Rysbank and other officers, on the arrival of a merchant
ship, claim to fill their bottles or flagons, some of them of an unreasonable
size, with wine out of the cargo; 2, a restraint on the exportation of wood
from England, except to or through Calais; 3, that when free exportation
of corn is allowed from England, it shall go by or to Calais only, by which
the King will have three customs instead of one, and the decay of the town,
which the King and many of the nobles saw when they were here, will be
arrested; 4, a reformation of tolls, which discourage the resort of victuallers
to the town; 5, that currency be given to foreign silver, as there is no white
money here but groats, half groats, and pence; and the victuallers, some of
whom come five or six miles to this market, have this money taken from them
by the searchers on their return; 6, that the wages of the retinue be paid
regularly on the 6th of April and October, and after the old rate, for in this
October payment they have lost a penny in every crown; 7, that orders be
given to customers in England, in pursuance of the King's pleasure, to restore
their former liberty of conveying victuals. Signed : John BernersEdmund
HowardEdward RyngeleyCrystofer GarneysRobert FoulerJohn
Rowkewood.
Pp. 19.
iii. List of churches at and near Calais, with their incumbents :
St. Mary's, Calais; rector, Mr. Chamberleyn, absent. St. Nicholas', vacant.
St. Peter's, near Calais; rector, Dominico de Corsis, reported dead, and has
not been there for 30 years. Colne; John Butteler, royal chaplain. Marke,
with the chapel of Ghempe; resident rector, John Bennolt, royal secretary.
Hoverkerke; Edward Wygan, absent. Newkerke; rector, Roger Morton,
absent. Olderkerke, Mr. Secretary. Oye; rector, Dr. Vaghan, King's
chaplain. Gwysnes, rector; Milo, King's chaplain. Andren; rector, John
Carter, absent. Balyngham; rector, the Lord Chamberlain's chaplain.
Campe; rector, John Bradway, resident. St. Blaises; rector, John Apday,
absent. Bocard; rector, Richard Anlaby, resident. Hamyswell; rector,
John Gregyll, vicar of Barking, absent. St. Nicasse's; rector, Nicholas
Courleux, absent. Froyton; rector, John Crayforth, royal chaplain.
Calkewell, with Niel chapel; John Bennolt, secretary, resident. Bonynges;
William Peterson, resident. Pytham; rector, Nicholas Halle, chaplain of the
Chamberlain. Herveringham; William Bragges, absent. Skalys; rector,
Thomas Hukar, absent. Slymes; rector, Robert Willson, absent. Pepelynge;
rector, John Laylonde, absent. Mellake; rector unknown.
iv. Copy of a proclamation made at Calais, permitting English men and
women to marry natives of Calais on the marches, without licence.
Proclaimed 8 March 2 Hen. VIII., by agreement of the whole council, in
the absence of Master Deputy in England.
R. O.
1704. [The Deputy and Council Of Calais to Henry VIII.]
Have received the King's letter, dated Greenwich, 27 Dec., containing
two articles :(1) concerning the sums of money advanced by the King for
making provision against his coming; and (2) that wools, felts, and other
merchandise belonging to the Staple shall not be dispatched hence till they
know his pleasure. As to the first, there appears some difficulty how it may
be observed without detriment to them, who bound themselves to the King,
rather that provisions might be made in time, than for any reasonable cause
why they should be bound. Hope, however, that no fault will be found in
them, though it is to their pain. As to the second, have taken such orders
as will not fail to "quadre" with the King's commandment.
Reply at length to the articles mentioned in the previous paper, and to the
same effect, though using different arguments in some places. In the "new
additions" it is mentioned that last summer there were 200 or 300 sail of
Normans and Bretons at Tynemouth haven for coal. Suggest the withdrawal
of the Deputy's power to grant licence for marriages between English and
strangers.
Pp. 11. Endd.
R. O.
1705. Calais.
Commissioners appointed to survey the lands which Sir Robt. Wingfield
has lately had drained and ditched, to know whether their drainage will
hinder the fortifying of the town, and to view the fortifications at Gwys[nes]. (fn. 8)
The dukes of Norfolk and Suffolk. The marquis of E[xce]ster (struck out).
The earl of Oxford. The Lord Chamberlain. Lord Rochford (struck out).
Mr. Treasurer. Mr. Comptroller. Mr. Vice-Chamberlain. Sir John Wallop.
Sir Nic. Carew (struck out). Sir Fras. Bryan. Mr. Crumwell. Robt. Fowler.
William Gunstone. Christopher Moreys. (fn. 9) Sir John Rossell. Francis the
founder. (The two last are added in the King's hand.) The master mason of
Calais. (fn. 9)
In Wriothesley's hand. P. 1. Endd.
2. An earlier draft of the preceding in Cromwell's hand. P. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1706. Corn.
Register of bonds given to the customer of Sandwich, by merchants
exporting corn and other provisions, for their conveyance to Calais in
22 and 23 Hen. VIII.
Pp. 12.
ii. A similar register taken for the ports of Chichester, Bishop's Lynn,
Kingston-upon-Hull, and Boston, during the same period.
Pp. 31. Endd.
iii. A similar register for Yarmouth and Blakeney, partly for corn sent to
Calais, and partly for corn sent to London.
Pp. 13.
iv. A similar register for the port of Lynn, of corn sent to Calais, Cork,
London, Dartmouth, West Chester, Winchelsea, Holy Island, and Plymouth.
Pp. 13.
R. O.
1707. Corn.
"The book of the King's process sued against divers for corn (fn. 10) "
(i.e. for conveying it out of the realm). The proceedings seem all to be taken
in 24 Hen. VIII.
Pp. 33.
R. O.
1708. George Hasell.
Reasons of dissent given against the finding of a quest by Richard
Sexton, the foreman, Robt. Garnysh, and John Saxbye, who produce
evidences to show that Geo. Hasell was not born "in this town (Calais) or
in the King's dominions." Old Father Thos. Redyng says precisely, that
he was not born here. Wm. Yong was openly and shamefully disbarred by
the King, and everything whereto his hand or consent was, disallowed.
Orders were given that all books in his hand should be brought in by a
certain day, so that it lieth with my Lord (fn. 11) and the Council to punish the
detainer of this book. Sampson Norton proved that Hasell was born in
Sperleyne, in Flanders, of which his father was bailiff. This is confirmed
by the chief lord of that country, and the mayor of St. Omers. Norton
swore that it was true before the mayor, and so did the chief part of this
inquest. John Henbury deposes that Hasell, "after that he was a stranger
enoysyd by certain old widows here," promised Henbury 20l. for letters of
denization, which Dr. Knyght asserts that Henbury endeavoured to obtain.
The brygenden-maker's wife affirms that he was born at St. Omer's. John
Laurence went to Sperleque, and obtained depositions on March 3, 1531,
from Jas. Colin, Guilbert le Griet, John le Hortre, brewer, and Bertin le
Flemencque, concerning his birth. For these reasons we will not give
credence to this book, "but submit them and their works to your discretions."
His lands are forfeited in either case, since he left them to his wife, a
stranger.
Pp. 4. Endd. : Depositions against George Hasell.
R. O.
1709. The Archbishopric Of Canterbury.
Statement of the value of the temporalities of the archbishopric,
payable at the different feasts throughout the year. Total, 3,009l. 17s. 7d. q.
R. O.
1710. The Great Wardrobe.
Account of the Great Wardrobe.
Surplus of accounts at Mich. 23 Hen. VIII., 1,775l. 15s. 4d.; at Mich.
24 Hen. VIII., 3,369l. 17s. 9d. Total, 5,145l. 13s. 2d.
List of creditors having claims on the above amount, with the sums
owing to them :Ralph Warren (fn. 12) (1,011l. 7s. 3d.), John Scutte, Thos.
Adyngton (fn. 12), Wm. Hewetson (fn. 12), Letice Worsshopp (fn. 12), Wm. Grene, John Malte (fn. 12)
(1,131l. 19s. 9d.), Eliz. Nicholson, Nich. Jennyns, Hen. Clidrowe, Wm.
Taillour, Hen. Johnson, Wm. Miles, Ric. Clifton, Andrew Carre, Rob.
Acton (fn. 12), Wm. Nicholson (fn. 12), Wm. Colyns, John Browne, Rob. Fause, Geo.
Lovekyn, my lord steward (for his livery, 13l. 6s. 8d.), my lord Chancellor
(for his wax, 16l.), my lord Barnes, Chancellor of the Exchequer (12l. 17s. 4d.)
Alex. Plymley, Thos. Abraham, Ant. Vyvalde, Thos. Welsshe, the King's
Remembrancer (4l. 12s. 8d.), Laur. Gorrer, John Scott, the third Baron
(12l. 17s. 4d.). Total, 4,037l. 16s. 9d.
The remainder, 1,107l. 16s. 5d., has been paid to divers creditors since
Mich. 24 Hen. VIII.
ii. Payments by warrant, from Mich. 23 to Mich. 24 Hen. VIII., to my
lady Princess and my lady Margaret, and for the King's stable. Total,
2,261l. 12s.
Pp. 3. Endd.
R. O.
1711. Plate.
Part of an account of plate, mentioning the delivery of different items
to the following persons :Mr. Lovell, by Mr. Davers; Mr. Cary, by Banaster;
the lady Guldeford the elder; the Queen's almoner; the King's nurse, by
my lady Willoughby; Mr. Darrell, by Suttell; my lady Darrell, by Crede; the
Queen's Chancellor, by lady Willoughby; the bishop of Durham, by Hasilrig;
the bishop of Salisbury, by Mr. Decons; the lady Eliz. Boloyn, by Oliver
Holland; the lady Marques (Dorset), by Geo. Fraunces; Mrs. Norrys, by
Huddeswell; Sir Henry Marney, by Tyrrell; the lady Mountjoy, by Rob.
Hilton; the old lady Lucy, by Wheler, yeoman; Sir John Petche, by Thos.
Rice; Jas. Worseley, by Davy Morgan; the lord Fitzwater, by Ric.
Aleyne; Dorothy Verney, by T. Wadell; Mrs. Lacy, by her servant;
John Copynger, by Geo. Mountjoy; "to Mrs. Laurence, and she hath paid
the money"; Sir Hen. Guldeford; the dean of the King's chapel, by
Mynours; the countess of Surrey, by Marbery; the earl of Devon, by
Harryson; Mr. Palmer, by W. Thomas; lady Fitzwilliam, by Geo. Sutton;
the bishop of Llandaff, by Burton; Dr. Chambre, "per Canc'"; the lord
Bergevenny, by Madeson; the lady Weston, by N. Streverne; Mr. Compton,
by Brian Annesley; the lady Bryan, by Higdon; the earl of Kildare, by
W. Mylles; the lady Eliz. Grey, by Yerdeley; the King's almoner, by
Cope; the lady Parre, by Ric. Sutton; the lady Guldeford, the younger,
by Carleton; Mrs. Norres, by Boeth; the lady Compton, by Owen Holand;
Mrs. Carewe, by Edw. Davy; Mrs. Jernegan, "per Canc'"; the lady
Wyngfeld, by Walton; Harryatt, my lady Princess's servant; Mrs. Blanche
Marbery, by order of the Queen; the duke of Buckingham, by John Poyntz;
Sir Edw. Nevell, by Cooke; Mr. Victoria, the Queen's physician; Mr. Plomer,
the Queen's chaplain, by Cheyney; Mr. Mallet, the Queen's chaplain; lady
Fitzherbert, by the Queen; the lady Fitzwater, by Ric. Awood; the archbishop
of Canterbury, by Bulstrode; the bishop of Lincoln, by Gryffyth;
the lady Anne Hastings, by Hugh Carre; Sir Thos. Tyrrell, by Anthony
Carleton; the earl of Northumberland, by Geo. Brigus; the earl of Surrey,
by Marbury; the duke of Norfolk, by John Glynne; the countess of Devon,
the King's aunt, by Dynes; the lady Vaux, by Manours; Sir Henry Guldeford;
Sir John Husee, by Thos. Anton; the lady Grey, wife to lord John
Grey, by Big (?); Mrs. Bryan, by Higdon; the bishop of Winchester, by
Wheler, page; Mrs. Goldyng, by Mrs. Fynche; the Cardinal, by Radclyf;
the old lady Daubeney; John Potecary; Mr. Dent, the Queen's chaplain,
by Cheyney.
The account is divided into sections headed with the following names;
viz., Tewysylton, Averell, Sponer, Amadas, Lupset. (fn. 13)
Pp. 31.
R. O.
1712. An Inventory Of Plate.
A sa ... A Scot[ch] crone. A strange "quoyne" (coin) of gold
[with t]he sun on one side. A piece of Flemish gold, called "the di. lewe."
Parcels of silver and gilt :
14 hearts, great and small. 75 rings. 14 crucifixes. 6 heads of St. John. 4 buckles
of sundry fashion. 2 "dymysentes," with roses. 2 tables with 2 images in each.
* A St. James shell, with 2 staves and the scrip of silver gilt. 8 crystal
stones, 6 white and two red. 2 gilt groats. 2 "pens of ij. pens gilt." 25 pence and old
halfpence, gilt. I new halfpenny, gilt. A St. James shell. A little "joywell." A
little Jesus with a crown. A beast under a tree. A flower with certain letters. A little
owch with 5 small rubies and 3 pearls ... 2 Trean ... [silver] and
gilt.
i. Parcels of silver :
10 hearts. 20 rings and one "gemewe." A crucifix. 8 "legges," great and small.
One Antony cross. 4 buckles. 7 pictures of men, women, and children. 9 pictures,
in plates of silver. 2 pictures. 2 heads of pictures. 2 women's breasts. A hand ...
tonys ... xx ... old halfpe[nce]. 4 scutcheons. "A ... of
silver." A groat. A crown. A jewel. A thing to close in St. John's Gospel. A
book of silver with a heart on it. A tooth of silver. A tooth set in silver. Three pieces
of silver of outlandish coin. A coral stalk.
A sma[ll ch]eyne of gold set ... Twelve rings of gold with turquoise, diamond,
sapphire, ruby, and garnets.
Twenty-one rings of gold without stones. * * * ... of
gold, with a scriptu[re with]out it, enamell[ed] ... of gold, enamelled [with] a ruby
and a pearl and [r]edd drops ... of gold, with 3 rubies, a garnet, and 2 pearls. A
little rose of gold, the white rose and red. An owche of gold, with a diamond, a garnet, and
2 pearls. An owche of gold, with an amethyst and 3 pearls. A heart of gold, with the
letters I and M on the sides sunderly. A Jesus, of gold, enamelled. A gold heart, with
the five wounds graven. A lozenge of gold, with the image of a man graven. A cross of
gold, with a small crucifix. A gold image of St. Barbara. A gold image of a man. A
round brooch of gold, with Our Lady and her son in a ship. (fn. 14) A little owche of gold
with a garnet. A plain gold heart. A heart with Jesus, and flowers enamelled. A
crystal stone set in gold with 2 pearls pendant. A little 3-square piece of gold with holes
pounced.
Pp. 6. Mutilated.
Titus, B. IV.
112.
B. M.
1713. Crown Lands.
"Articles made and devised on the behalf of our most dread
sovereign lord the King, touching his revenues, to be put in execution for
the profit of his most royal estate, according as it appertaineth unto the
office of his surveyors general, and by them to be certified unto his Highness."
1. What lands and other hereditaments have been purchased or otherwise
come to his Highness since the beginning of his reign.
2. What lands have been parted with by exchange or otherwise.
3. What possessions and revenues remain in the King's hands answerable
before the general surveyors.
4. In what counties the King's castles, lands, &c. are situate, and their
condition.
5. The ruin and waste of the said castles, &c., since the beginning of the
reign.
6. What money has accrued to the King by the sale of lead, timber, stone,
or other stuff.
7. The names of the honors, castles, &c., which have been surveyed by
the general surveyors, and rentals, terriers, or extents made thereof.
8. What honors, &c., have been let on lease by the surveyors, so that the
King now has only the rent, instead of both certainties and casualties as
before.
9. The yearly value of the increase of rent of such honors, &c.
10. What fines have been paid for them. In the West country the fines
and other casualties are very great, as the lands are taken for term of life.
11. What reversions have been granted, and by what authority. It is
thought that honors, manors, and lordships, let wholly with the rents and
other profits, may fall into decay, and exactions be put upon the tenants,
the farmers in such cases being commonly their own judges, and the keeping
of courts and other necessary things disused.
12. To certify the last view of forests, parks, and chaces, with the present
quantity of game, and condition of the fencing.
13. The waters belonging to the King, both common and several, and how
the fishings and sewers are maintained."Nostre Dame de Boulogne."
14. What woods and underwoods have been sold by the surveyors, besides
those sold by the justice of the forests, or the masters of the wood-sales.
15. What arrears are unpaid by receivers, bailiffs, &c.
16. What profit has grown to the King by recognizances or bonds taken
before the general surveyors.
Pp. 3. Endd.
R. O.
1714. Crown Lands.
A register of leases of Crown lands in South Wales, Cheshire, the
earldom of March, the lands assigned for the pay of the garrison of Berwick,
the duchy of Cornwall, the lands of the late earl of Warwick, of the late
duke of Bedford, Barkeleislands, Buckingham's lands, the late viscount
Lovell's lands, Coopercioners' lands, lands exchanged and purchased,
Spencerislandes, the town and marches of Calais, Richmond's lands, Beaumont's
lands, the Isle of Wight, and Salisbury's lands. The dates of the
leases range from 13 to 24 Hen. VIII., and the increments of rent are noted
in the margin.
Large paper, pp. 33.
R. O.
1715. Debts To The Crown.
Memorandum to know the King's pleasure touching these debts
following :
1. "Concerning the old obligations of king Henry the VII.th's time,
whereof he ... Sir John Heron to have been cancelled, and no mention
of him in his last book ... part of them were for exercising of offices,
and other conditions, as appearance and oth[er] ... otherwise to be
discharged, and those which had any likelihood to be good were put [in suit]
by Sir Henry Wyat, and also by me, and be yet in the King's attorney's hands
in suit ... to many of them, and other insufficient, and divers of them
new boundes be p[romised] and yet the old obligations remaining, showing
in the books a visage of both debts." (Some of these be leviable.) The
countess of Salisbury, which the King commanded to respite when it was
in suit, ijmcccxx. (Good debt.) Averay Rawson, for which Sir Ant. Poyntz
was bound, 1,550l. (Young Poyntz offers 200 mks. at days, and the prior of
Kilmaynam is bound for 150l., not yet due. The rest is little worth.)
Edw. late duke of Buckingham owed great sums, for part of which other
lords and gentlemen were bound, and for part lands were recovered, whereof
part are in the King's hand, and the rest given away. (500 mks. was a
debt due to the duke of Norfolk, parcel of his marriage money, a[nd was] consigned
over to the King, and for that [my] lord of Sussex and the lord
Berners are bound; and 1,000l. was in king Henry VII.'s time, and for that
Sir Thos. Wodhouse, his chancellor, was bound; and for 1,650l. lands were
recovered.) John Keme, Geo. Medley, Ric. Reynoldes, Robt. Palmar, and
Fras. Baldewyn are somewhat behind of 5,000 mks. due 1528, and shall owe
5,000 mks. more at March 1535. (This debt was 10,000l., for 5,000l.
delivered in naughty obligations, and 5,000l. in money, and the King hath
been paid almost 10,000 mks., with respite that is given. The rest is good,
save for Kyme's part, who hath Medley's part and his own.) Sir Thos.
Brian, for money lent for marriage of his daughter, 5,000 mks. (I think
lands were recovered, and Sir Fras. Brian hath sold them.) Lord Berners,
100l. Sir Griffith Rice, 506l. 13s. 4d. (The rest Sir Piers Egecombe hath
paid.) Lord Darcy, which the King commanded to be respited when it was
in suit, 662l. 14s. 6d. (This may be put in suit again at the King's pleasure.
Sir Thos. Cornewale, by statute and other obligations, 286l. 13s. 4d. His
lands be aliable hereunto.) Lewes Harpisfelde, 7,080l. (For much of this
new obligations be taken of Champneys and other, the rest is desperate;
and of this sum much is double obligations for one debt.) The earl of
Derby, deceased, a bill of his debt is given to my lord Norwich. (Good
debt.) The old lord Dudley, 292l. 5s. 8d. (Good debt.) Barnarde Salviati,
812l. (Not totally desperate.) The French queen and the duke of
Suffolk. I made a book to Mr. Cromwell of their debt. Anthony Guydot,
1,682l. 15s. 7d. (His days are not come, and it may be made good.) Peter
Bushome, 180l. Christopher de Peirre of Nawar, 200l. (These have
nothing in England.) Peter Corse, 1,930l. 14s. 7d. (Desperate.) John
Campouche, 288l. 15s. 8d. A poor man. John Baptist Morovelli,
493l. 19s. 1d. (Little of this is good.) Philip Friscobalde, 558l. 6s. (He
is in Flanders, little worth.)
P. 1, large paper. The passages in brackets are in another hand.
R. O.
2. Another fragment of the preceding, found apart.
Antony Cavalari, 4,520l. 13s. 4d. (Little good.) John Cavalcanti and
his company, 1,707l. 1s. 7d. (He asketh as much of my lord Cardinal.) The
Mayor and Fellowship of the Staple gave Mr. Cromwell a bill of their debt.
(At a point.) Barth. Salviati, 150l. 2s. 4d. (He hath nothing in England.)
Laurence Bonvix, 10,983l. 6s. 9d. (It may be made good debt.) William
Corse ... iiijli. viijs. xd. (He asked [as] much of my lord Cardinal, and
is dead.) Francis de Bardis ... vjd. (L. Lisle bound for 1,000l.
not yet due.) Guydo Portinary ... (Capons asketh as much due by
L. Cardinal.) Caponis, 252l ... Raff Diall, 600l. (I have little
hope of it. I had him in the Tower.) John Baptista Saceti and William
Corse, 250l. (Not totally desperate, but he is not here.) John Baptiste
Grymalde, 37l. 7s. 2d. (Nothing.) William late archbishop of Canterbury,
165l. (He showeth discharge for all, save 5l. A warrant must be had for
delivery of the obligations, receiving 5l.) In the cofferer's hands, delivered to
him by Brian Tuke, for a prest to remain continually in his hands for the
better payment of the King's household, 8,000l. The earl of Northumberland,
beside this great debt of Anthony Bonvise, owes for his father 100 marks;
of Castelyn's debt, 120l.; and of his livery, 316l. 13s. 4d.503l. 6s. 8d.
P. 1, mutilated.
Harl. MS.
2,252, f. 18.
B. M.
1716.  to [the Council.] (fn. 16)
Complains of the great deceit done by sufferance of the great and
head officers of the city of London, as pots holding but seven pints are stamped
with the King's letter H, and used for a gallon. Gives an account of the
standards in use in England, and mentions statutes bearing on the question
from Ric. II. to Hen. VII., and that the King "that now is" (Hen. VIII.)
has enacted that eight pints go to the gallon.
Pp. 8, imperfect copy.
Titus, B. I.
f. 58.
B. M.
Ellis, 2 Ser.
II. 89.
1717. Henry VIII. to Lady Anne Savon, widow.
In behalf of Stephen Mylles, who is greatly minded towards her, to
honor her by way of marriage. Signed at the top.
Add.
R. O.
1718. Ralph Eure to Cromwell.
Received his letter of Sunday by Chr. Wylamson, servant to my
lady Salvand. Cromwell and others of the King's council have been
informed that one Stephen Mylles took lady Salvand from her house against
her mind; but she confesses it was by her own mind. Eure would like to
know who reported so untruly that jewels and money were taken by him.
She was at Eure's house, and the said Stephen with her, at her pleasure;
and Stephen accompanied her from Eure's house to her own. Signed.
P. 1. Add. : To the right worshipful Master Cromwell, one of the King's
most honorable Council. Endd. : Raffe Eure.
R. O.
1719. [Cromwell] to the Abbot Of Bury.
Cromwell and others having charge of the King's buildings at the
Tower of London and Westminster have been compelled, for lack of masons,
carpenters, and other workmen, to send into all parts of the kingdom. Is
surprised to learn that the Abbot has stayed several workmen in his district,
notwithstanding the King's commission. Would be sorry the King should
hear of his demeanour, and urges him to send up the masons at once.
Hol., draft, pp. 2.
R. O.
1720. [Lord Audeley to Cromwell.]
My humble petition is that you will be so good master to me as to
advise me what to do in this extreme necessity. I see you are so molested
by importunate suitors that I fear to utter my mind to you. "And now
the King's officers calleth for rent, and necessity hath made Our Lady Day
come 12 months before Michaelmas, and creditors be importune, which must
needs be paid or staid." A remedy is in my mind, which I should like to
show to good Mr. Bedylle, to disclose to your mastership at convenience.
Hol., p. 1. Endd. : Audelay.
R. O.
1721. Sir Thos. Audeley to Paulet and Cromwell.
I am willing to accomplish your desires; yet, all things considered,
it stands neither with justice nor equity in this case, being a dispute between
party and party for perambulation of limits. Specifies his reasons. Gives
an account of the commission issued for hearing the cause, to which the earl
of Oxford and young Compton were parties, and after various delays were
now to have come to a settlement. It seems to me, therefore, "very sore"
to grant a supersedeas. I do not write this from favor to any one, nor
could I be induced to do anything by which the King should be wronged.
But I write this to you both, that we may run by a just line to the King's
honor and profit. I write this, as I perceive by your letters that you suspect
me of partiality, and that the person who came to me for the supersedeas
went away disappointed. Excuses himself upon that head, and informs them
what further steps should be taken. Saturday morning, at Hoxon. Signed :
Thomas Audeley, k., custos sigilli.
Hol., pp. 2. Add.
R. O.
1722. Hugh Bartlatt.
Petition to Cromwell, praying for payment of the arrears of a debt
due to him as late servant of the prior of Christchurch, Aldgate, London,
proved before Dr. Oliver, Dr. Lee, and Will. Candyssh, clerk to your mastership,
and amounting to 9l. 11s. 1d. Of this sum Cavendish had paid him
20s., but has refused him the rest, although he has often applied.
P. 1. Headed : To Mr. Thomas Cromwell, of the King's council.
R. O.
1723. John Benneg, "Sayyer," (fn. 17) to Cromwell.
Complains that he and three men in his service were engaged on
Cromwell's work for 18 days, when Cromwell was beyond sea, and were
promised 2s. 4d. a day, "because that we should work our owers that is
alowed us in the Kyng workes," but were only paid 2s. a day.
Hol., p. 1. Begins : Master Crumwell.
R. O.
1724. George Beynam to Cromwell.
Your servant, this bearer, has taken so much pains, that the abbot of
Tewkesbury will let the farm of Stanwey to you and your assigns, reserving
to himself the manor and certain lands. Urges Cromwell to move as well
for the manor and lands as for the farm, otherwise it will be no meet place
for the writer to inhabit. The Abbot has two or three manors besides, which
are more convenient for him. Begs him to press this with speed.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Master of the King's Jewels.
R. O.
1725. Richard Bruges to Cromwell.
I perceived from my father, on his coming home from the last Parliament,
that you had remembered me for the little parsonage of Chadleworth.
I thank you for the same. I understand there is a new abbot elected to the
monastery of Westminster, and I beg the continuance of your favor. Desires
an answer by the bearer.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the Council. Endd.
R. O.
1726. William Chester.
Petition of Wiliam Chester, merchant, to Master Thomas Crumwell,
"one of the King's most honorable Council," complaining that, having
obtained an outlawry against John Palmer, of Lemyngton, for non-delivery
of certain wools, in an action commenced in Hilary term 22 Hen. VIII., he
cannot get the sheriffs of cos. Glouc., Worc., and Warw. to execute it,
although the said Palmer is a man of great possessions.
P. 1.
R. O.
1727. John Lord Dudley to Cromwell.
Thanks him for his comfortable words. Begs he will move the King
to receive his poor request. The late Lord, my father, (fn. 18) left me in debt for
him, myself being indebted in his lifetime. To keep myself from prison I
was constrained to make shift with such lands as he left me in fee, of which
I made a bargain with Sir John Dudley for 2,000l., but never had from him
or his assigns more than 1,400l.; for which I am bound to pay Sir John
Dudley, every 12th May, 400l., until the 2,000l. is paid. I am also bound to
him in the forfeiture of all my lands to the sum of 6,000l., according to
certain covenants, to the undoing of me and my family. I am also bound
in certain obligations to Sir John Alen for the manors of Swynford and
Hembley. I therefore beg you to ask the King to take into his hands my
lordship of Segeley, of the yearly value of 180l., and to discharge me anent
Dudley and Alen of the 2,200l.; the King to have this lordship for 20 years
after the decease of my mother, who is 86 years old. For your pains in this
I will give you 10l. a year for life, to buy a tun or two of wine for your
household. I would have gladly come to you, but that Sir John Dudley
lays wait for me in the city of London to keep me afore the days of payment.
Signed.
Pp. 2. Add. : To the right worshipful Mr. Cromwell. Endd. : My lord
Dudley's letters.
R. O.
1728. Erasmus Forde to Mr. Stedalff.
I write to you as one of the King's Commissioners of Sewers, against
the extreme handling of divers poor men. Mr. Cromwell, one of the King's
council, came to Southwark, and brought with him the King's commission
concerning the statute of sewers, and called before him Mr. Skote, and gave
us our charge, commanding us to act indifferently, both in reference to the
King and the meanest men. We have found the King's weirs unlawful, and
common purprestures to his own stream, and we have done the same to all
others without malice. Such as we have set to examine the weirs have been
arrested, and we could scarcely bail them; and I am informed by the curate
of our church that some are sued in Westminster Hall, as the master of
St. Thomas' Spittal told him, for unlawful fishing in the Thames. Mr. Welles
of Kingston was like to be indicted at Croydon for presenting a "steyre"
that one Dean of Kingston, taker of timber and board for Hampton Court,
has made and encroached on the Thames above all others; and, to fear us, he
says we be false harlots, and will bring the King himself to see it. He came
to my house, called Norbeton Hall, "and like an Hemprour enters into my
ground, bordered about with elms, the chief pleasure of all my house,
unknowledging to his master, the surveyor of Hampton Court," and has
dug up by the roots 35 of my purest and fairest elms. I am a poor man,
"and would rather 'a geve 35 nobles, to have borrowed it of 35 men, and,
if I were rich, rather to have lost 35l." If I am to be handled in this way,
I had liever forsake the country than be thus shamed for doing the King's
work. I am sick of an ague, and not strong enough to sue to Mr. Cromwell.
Dytton.
Hol., pp. 3. Add. : Mr. Stedalff, one of the King's Commissioners of
Sewers in Surrey.
R. O.
1729. Edmund Gryffyn, the King's Gardener at Hampton Court,
to Cromwell.
Petition setting forth that the King had, by patent 10 May
18 Hen. VIII., granted him for life "the office of marshalsea of his Four
Courts" in Ireland, with a yearly fee of eight marks Irish; which office he
enjoyed till the deputyship of Ireland was granted to Gerald Fitz Gerald
earl of Kildare, by patent dated 2 July 23 Hen. VIII., (fn. 19) or thereabouts, who
appointed Will. Bathe under-treasurer and general receiver. Petitioner
then appointed as his deputy Ric. Foster to exercise the office in his absence;
but Bath refused to pay the fee either to Foster or to the petitioner himself,
who applied to him for it since his coming to England. The amount is
10 marks 4s. 6d. Begs Cromwell to send a serjeant-at-arms for the said
William to make him answer.
Hol., p. 1. Add. at the head : Of the King's council. Endd.
R. O.
1730. Thos. Hall, Clerk Of The Hanaper.
Pardon for Cysle, widow of Thos. Hall, late Clerk of the Hanaper,
of 150l., which he received before his death on 8 July 23 Hen. VIII., and
which she is unable to repay. John Judde, Hall's deputy, has paid 300l.,
the profits of the office in Hall's time, to Thos. Cromwell, now clerk of
the Hanaper. Allowance is to be given also for 14l. worth of stone, &c.,
received by Hall from Thos. Alford for the King's buildings at Ipswich.
A bond for 50l. given by Hall to Wolsey for the sealing of the patent of
his office is to be cancelled.
Large paper, pp. 3.
R. O.
1731. Nicholas Hancok (fn. 20) to Cromwell.
With contrite heart desiring your favor. I trust to be one of the
penitents St. Austin mentions, looking for grace at your hands, and desiring
you to spare me within Christchurch, till Saturday or Monday next at the
furthest, five or six days' meat and drink at my last cast. I cannot provide
a house to go to till that time, as yet I have not my pension. I desire you
will discharge me of the quit-rent "and the bocher," for which neither I nor
my sureties dare go into the city, or I would have visited you. I trust you
will not see me lie in prison for the debts of the house, for. if so. I must die
there. I pray I may have a discharge
and not be arrested when I have resigned; also that I may have honest
bedding, my chaplain and two servants, considering the room that I have
outwardly kept, not regarding my person and lewdness. "Your poorest bedeman,
statu pessimo, Sir Nic. Hancok."
Pardon my rude ignorance, "for my brain and wit is not stable. God,
the King's Highness, and your mastership may it amend, when all parties
shall please."
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Master of the Jewels.
R. O.
1732. Nicholas Hancok to Cromwell.
When I left you at Westminster Bridge I desired you to discharge
me of the debts of the house, as conscience would, especially for the butcher,
the quit-rent, and Miles Cocker, carpenter. It is now grown to 11l., and
attachments are out against me for the payment. I have sold all that I have,
and do now beg and borrow. None will lend, as I have given up my room
and house, and they bade me sue to the doers thereof. The matter may be
easy, if you allow the lease made to John Jonson of the tenement now
occupied by Miles Coker. 14 or 15 have set to their hands, saying the lease
is good. As I said, if you will discharge me of the said three debts, I would
profit triple the same. You bade me put that to light, and I should profit
thereby. I have therefore sent you two obligations and one acquittance of
Milles, sanctuary man of Westminster, until I can see you, though that is
uncertain, and I dare not go abroad. If not, I must go into sanctuary,
which shall be no honor or pleasure to you. When I gave up my house, I
little thought to be thus handled.
If I had been false, the three writings might have done harm. I can say
more than all the other dissimulers, as you shall find.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To the worshipful Mr. Cromwell.
R. O.
1733. Nicholas Hancok to Cromwell.
I have sent you three writings concerning the business between
Christchurch and Milles, sanctuary man. I sent also four "a-late." One
was the obligation of Ric. Gray for performing the indenture of Bexley, for
which he owes 6l. 3s. 4d. for the half year's rent due Midsummer last; also
23s. 4d. due at Christmas last, as the sub-prior says. I am willing to declare
anything else you desire. I ask to be discharged of three attachments out
against me, in Essex, Midd., and London, for the 11l. decreed against me in
Chancery, as you would not allow the lease made to John Jonson, granted
under his seal to Miles the carpenter, to stand good. I am not able to pay it.
For that, and the butcher's debt, and the quit-rent, I have sold and spent all
that I have.
I am ready to resign my raiment, bedding, and chamber, or else I must
purchase sanctuary.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To the hon. and my singular good master.
R. O.
1734. Nicholas Hancok to Cromwell.
You said, at my last meeting with you, you would discharge me of 10l.,
and my sureties from the butcher and quit-rent, and from Miles Cokker, the
carpenter, and that I should have sufficient bedding and raiment. That done, I
will do that which shall be as beneficial to the house as double the debt.
Touching any sale of lease, I have made none, although words were spoken
to me to that effect. I will do nothing to your displeasure.
Signed : Nicholas Hancok, outcast.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Master Cromwell.
R. O.
1735. Nicholas [Hancok], late of Christchurch, to Cromwell.
Has had more comfort from Cromwell of late than for a long time
before; yet all his friends turn from him, and make slanderous reports of
him, saying he reckoned on good profit and quietness in giving up his house.
"And as yet the contrary I find, and so shall continue," unless the King
set him clear by granting him the petitions which Sir John Allen and Mr.
Gybson, serjeant-at-arms, know of. These two have befriended him much
without promise of reward. Will fulfil whatever he promises to do. Desires
to be set on foot again, and be his own man, when he hopes to use himself to
the honor of God and comfort of his mastership. A vicarage called Lyd,
now void, is in the King's gift by the death of the bishop of Canterbury,
which, with the priory of Bylsyngton, will set him up.
P.S.If the King will grant him the priory and vicarage by patent for
life, will act so that Cromwell shall say he has deserved them. Implores
Cromwell's help now, else he is undone.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To the right honorable and my singular good master
Cromewell.
R. O.
1736. Robt. Herne to Cromwell.
Complains that a quantity of salmon, herrings, fish, oil, and honey
exported from Ireland to Lichfield is neither lawfully made nor lawfully sold
for lack of a lawyer; and begs Cromwell to write to Mr. Stred and the baily
of Lichfield to suffer the writer, who is a stock-fishmonger of London, to
have the execution of the packing, sorting, and gauging the said goods.
P. 1. Add. : Mr. Cromwell, one of the counsellors to our sovereign lord
the King, and Master of his Jewels. Endd.
R. O.
1737. Hugh Hunteley to Sir Will. Kingston.
I delivered your letters to my lord abbot of ... "[wher]ewith
he was verie gladde." I moved him for Derest, saying that I had heard that
he should have letters sent unto him for it, and it was better for him to grant
it to you than be compelled to give it to others. He said it was little worth,
and if he were constrained to grant any of his cells, you should have the best
of them, and there was nothing he would not do to please you in, the foundation
of his house only excepted. [Date lost.]
Bristow is the best cell.
Hol., p. 1, mutilated. Add.
R. O.
1738. John Laurence to Henry VIII.
I am in the greatest anguish of heart. Our father minister is very
unkind to me, and has put me out of office, and he boasts he will obtain your
authority to put me in prison. My offence is that I wrote to him from the
chapter, desiring him to be so faithful to you, according to the confidence you
had in him, and exhorted him to the same by mouth. He has answered,
"Wilt thou supplant me under the King's feet? I will not obey the King,
but the religion." Since then he never spake merrily to me, and intends to
complain of me to you. If so, I beg he may be examined as to the particulars,
and then his charges will be found to be without foundation. He is greatly
altered since our chapter, and is not the man you took him for. You might
think I spoke from affection if I entered into particulars. Let me be set to
answer him face to face, when I will prove what I say. I have things to
show to you, pertaining to your honor and the wealth of the realm.
Hol., p. 1. Add.
R. O.
1739. John Laurence to [Cromwell].
I hear you have conceived great displeasure against me, for which I
am right sorry. There is, however, no just cause for it. I have always been
anxious to do you service. Whatever I have done has been for the King's
honor and yours, for which I have incurred great odium. I have informed
you I could never be suffered to come to you. If it be your pleasure to
admit me to your presence, you will find me at all times pliant and obedient.
If you will be as good a master to me as you have promised in times past, I
shall be your daily orator.
Hol., p. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1740. [Sir George Lawson] to Cromwell.
"Gentle Mr. Cromwell, where ye write to me ye would I should
remember my wife, would to God she would remember her own honesty,
and leaving walking and idleness in London, of herself specially and four
persons which she keepeth there doing nothing but attendant upon her."
Will not drudge and drivel to keep her and four persons idle, not even delving
in the garden. Means to keep himself out of debt so as to serve the King
and make his due accounts once a year. The present time is "marvellous
chargeable" to him, notwithstanding the allowance obtained from the King
by Cromwell's help; and it would be better for his wife to break up her
house, and take either one man or one maid with her, and board in some
honest house. Has written, out of regard to Cromwell, to John Raven, to
give him 5l. for her, for her charges till Michaelmas next. Hope to see him
before then, and arrange for a divorce or separation, which she has long
wished for "in our old days." Wonders she is so crying for money, when
she had so much at divers times out of his counting-house.
Desires that this letter be burnt.
Hol., pp. 2.
R. O.
1741. Sir George Lawson to Cromwell.
In answer to a letter of Cromwell's about his wife. Has always
studied that they should live together without debt, "after the compass of
that thing that God has sent me;" but she has been extravagant, and, notwithstanding
"the great lack of my former living taken from me by Sir Thomas
Clifford," she has not abated her expences. Would rather die than not
fulfil his duty to the King "as his Majesty hath called me unto, of his goodness
and not of my merit." Was nearly brought to extreme poverty last
year, which would have been imputed to himself by Cromwell and others not
knowing the truth. She keeps at London two men and two women, whose
charges he cannot sustain. Offered to pay her charges if she would break
up her household and go to board. As to faults to be found on both sides, is
willing that the truth should be tried. Has written to John Raven to give
Cromwell 40s. or 4 marks for her. On his coming will be ordered as Cromwell
and other friends think best. Begs him to read this schedule to his
wife, and burn it.
Hol., pp. 2. Begins : Master Cromwell.
R. O.
1742. Elizabeth Lady Lawson to Cromwell.
Begs that she may have the 6l. "that your servant Candisshe hath in
his hand," towards her housekeeping "against this blessed time;" or at least
5 marks of it. Is in debt for beer and other things, and knows not of
whom she should be more bold than of her husband. Begs him not to regard
her husband's message by Mr. Gorstwycke, which was a thing surmised only
to excuse himself, and deprive her of pity. Would have waited on him
herself, but is ill at ease, and ashamed lest Cromwell think her guilty in any
such causes, which she is not. Desires to know his pleasure by Peter or Williamson,
and will make her husband such account of the money at his coming
that he shall think it well bestowed.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To the right worshipful Master Cromwell. Endd. : My
lady Lawson.
R. O.
1743. Sir George Lawson.
Detached leaf of an account book, containing these words only :
"Over and besides the costs and charges of Sir George Lawson, knight,
this accountant, remaining at Sheriff Hutton with his servants and horses, at
divers and sundry times within the time of account by the space of 40 days
and above to oversee the same works at"
[The rest is blank.]
R. O.
1744. John Lichefeld, late Canon of Christchurch, London,
to [Cromwell].
Complains that he is in the greatest distress because, when they had
thought themselves happy in the peaceful condition of their monastery and
entirely devoted to religion, their whole house was suppressed. Is very
unfortunate, as he is one of the last admitted and dedicated to God; and
now, after his religious training, is an entire outcast, and meets no respect
from men. Has visited various religious houses and congregations, begging
to be received among them, but without any success. Will be entirely lost,
except "tua gravitas" has compassion upon him.
Lat., p. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1745. [Henry Lockwood] to Cromwell.
Requests him to give "this poor man" a letter to the abbot of
Chester for the next vacancy of a place right meet for him in his old age.
He has been the writer's servant in times past. "Your son Gregory is merry,
thanked be God." Marlow, Wednesday. Not signed.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To the right worshipful Mr. Thos. Cromwell, at
London. Endd. : Marlowe.
R. O.
1746. Henry Longe, Sir Anthony Hungerford, and Sir John
Brygys to Cromwell.
We beg your favor for the abbot of Malmesbury for such payments
to the King as he is behindhand for his temporalities. His predecessor left
him little ready money. During the vacancy, part of the plate and much
of the goods of the house were embezzled. It is sore decayed, and he must
maintain it, or his friends would be blamed for his promotion. Considering
these things, the subsidy and other charges, he can make no great payment
at present. Signed.
P. 1. Add. : Right worshipful.
R. O.
1747. Henry Longe to Cromwell.
I desire the continuance of your goodness towards me, and send you
a couple of bucks.
I thank you for your favor to my brother, Richard Long.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the Council.
R. O.
1748. Walter Luke to Cromwell.
My son, as ye sent by him to my lord Grand Seal, had my patent
sealed; for which I thank you. I beg you will have [me] in remembrance
for the circuit of "Norh't" (Northampton?). I have shown my mind to my
special friend and neighbour, Mr. Gostwyk.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Right worshipful.
R. O.
1749. John Michel, Proctor at Shene, to Dr. Bedell.
Send me word by the bearer whether you intend to come to us at
this time, or when we shall attend on you. I should have come myself, but
I was afraid of being suspected by our brethren of having presumed too
much, or accelerating their trouble, which they needlessly expect at your
coming. I expect you will alleviate many a heavy scruple. From Shene,
this morning.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Dr. Bedell, most worthy councillor to the King's
grace. Endd.
R. O.
1750. Sir John Nevill to Cromwell.
I desire you to pardon me that I am so bold to write to you when I
ought to have come myself. But as I am going to kill two deer for the King,
I desire you to remember me to his Grace for the keeping of the manor of
Afryng (?). Will save the King 20 deer a year, and have his wife to lie
there.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Right worshipful.
R. O.
1751. R. Page to Cromwell.
I would have spoken with you today for my friend, Mr. Edw. Sapcottes,
but you were too busy. Saturday.
Mr. Russell did not forget to speak to you for him. He is a very good
fellow.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the Council.
R. O.
1752. William Parys to Cromwell.
My petition is to desire you to help me to my liberty. If it please
Mr. Hill to take further pains, "betwixt this and that little that I have in
Spain," I trust to content him. I am afraid to attend upon you till I have
good tidings.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To his worshipful and singular good master Cromwell.
Endd.
R. O.
1753. Sir William Paulet to Cromwell.
I send you new letters to sign, and must trouble you often till we
have done. Send me the book of the forest of Deane, that we may speak
with Sir Christopher Bayneham before he leaves London.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To his fellow and friend, Master Cromwell.
R. O.
1754. Sir William Paulet to Cromwell.
Since you sent your servant I have sent to the Friars and to your
house, but you were not at home. If it be not my chance to ride with you
to Tottenham to see the place of the late Master Compton, which you
promised me, let me not lack the same at this next Michaelmas.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : My loving and assured friend.
R. O.
1755. Edward Powell to Cromwell.
Of a dispute with Ric.  Dene, to whom he has offered 3l., but he is
not content. Will accept as arbitrators Mr. Yorke, serjeant, and Dr. Benet,
chancellor of Sarum.
P.S.My servant, Edmund Payntar, will bring me your pleasure.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Councillor.
R. O.
1756. Robert Reynold to Cromwell.
Please send me 50s. you owe me for 2 rings. It is of more value
than 100l. have been in time past. This is a Welshman's hand.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Right worshipful.
R. O.
2. The Same to The Same.
I thank you for your great kindness at our last meeting at Coventry. I
have been suing these four months for a room at Calais which the King gave
me "of a spear, the next that dies of three men, that is, the water bailly,
or Arthur Somerset, or John Prowde, and thus (this) have I gotten by the
help of Mr. Clerk of the Kitchen," who is my kinsman. I have no money
to take me to Calais. You owe me 33s. 4d. for two rings, which I beg you
will send me. If you deny the debt, lend me 40s. You are the first I have
borrowed money of for 10 years. "Written at Southwark this present day,
with a Welsh hand and false English."
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To the right worshipful Master Cromwell, London.
R. O.
1757. John Shukborowe to Cromwell.
On Thursday morning last I waited upon you at the Austin Friars.
I saw you at mass there; went with you, when mass was done, to Dormer the
alderman, with many other suitors, but did not dare speak to you.
As I went into the city I was arrested as surety for Lord Edmund Howard
for 26l., of which I have paid 10l. and have five years' payment for the rest. I
am surety for more, and dare not go abroad in the city. I pledged a damask
gown and a good coat for 5l., which I shall lose if I do not pay the money
tomorrow night. If you would lend me the money, I will leave my gown
in your hands, and pay you before Lady Day next. I have a gelding, which
I will give you for your favor.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the King's Council.
R. O.
1758. Sir Walter Stonor to Cromwell.
I have caused Snappe to be taken by my brother Robert, the bringer,
on Wednesday morning, excusing myself from coming, as I hurt myself on
Sunday last with taking two thieves. I trust to be with you on Friday or
Saturday.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the Council.
R. O.
1759. Oswald Sye, late servant to Master Amadas, to Cromwell.
Whereas the King gave Mr. Nedam (fn. 21) the clerkship of his works, and
at the request of my friend Mr. Flower his predecessor, Nedam promised I
should have the engrossing of his books concerning the same office; trusting
to his promise, I forsook divers worshipful men's service. I now understand
that, at your request, he has given the said office to another. If you and
Nedam knew my doings you would be content that I should enjoy it, as I
have been well broken in the engrossing of books, and know very well the
cast thereof, as Masters Draper, Beydill, and Hallyghly can tell.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Master of the Jewels. Sealed.
R. O.
1760. Oswald Sye to Cromwell.
I have requested my kinsman Mr. Davyd, the bearer, to desire you
to accept me as one of your servants, not for the sake of wages, but of your
favor. London, this present day.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the King's Council. Sealed.
R. O.
1761. Simon Symonds to Cromwell.
I beg your favor for the bearer, whom I desire to succeed in my
benefice of Elmedon, now in the King's gift. As soon as I can procure any
other living, as I hope by your means, I shall resign.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Right worshipful.
R. O.
1762. Richard Taverner to Cromwell
I am unknown to you, and in great distress. I am a master of arts at
Cambridge, where I have taught, but was induced to leave it by my friends
to become a student abroad. My friend who supported me is dead, and I
dare not ask for the King's liberality without first communicating with you.
Signed.
Lat., p. 1. Add. : Regi  Consiliis. Endd.
R. O.
1763. [Richard] Taverner to [Cromwell].
I thank you for offering to speak to the King for my relief, and that
at your instigation the duke of Norfolk has promised me an annuity. I wish
no more, as I am content with a little.
Hol., p. 1.
R. O.
1764. Robert Testwood to Cromwell.
I was child in this King's father's chapel for seven years in his latter
days; afterwards in my lord Cardinal's college in Ipswich. I am now in a
casual service likely to decay, and therefore beg your assistance.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Master Cromwell.
R. O.
1765. John Abbot Of Waverley to Master Studdaufe.
I commend me to you and your wife, thanking you for your hearty
cheer; and though I cannot recompense your deserts, I shall remain yours with
my whole heart. I have received Mr. Cromwell's most friendly letters. And
whereas I was determined to have ridden to my lord of Winchester by
Mr. Treasurer's command; I intend all this day to stay, and, if I can, to be
with you tomorrow night; if not, to meet you in London, at the Pope's
Head in Southwark. God reward you for your gentleness, as a most loving
kinsman. Waverley, this present morning.
Hol., p. 1. Add.
R. O.
1766. John Whalley to Cromwell.
Desires him to see these poor men, to whom he owes money, dispatched
against this time. Will get in their bills in two days, and bring Cromwell
an abstract. Cromwell has no cause to mistrust him.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : To his right worshipful and most singular good master,
Thos. Cromwell.
R. O.
1767. John Worthington to Cromwell.
It has chanced me to be in some trouble, and if you would send for me
and my adversaries to appear before you at your leisure, the matter might be
truly opened on both sides. I will bring honest men to confirm the truth of
my deposition. Thursday.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the King's Council.
R. O.
1768. John Worthington to Cromwell.
I send you such depositions as from time to time "shall be stand to."
This Saturday.
Hol., p. 1. Add. : Of the King's Council. Sealed.
Royal MS.
7 C. XVI. 35.
B. M.
1769. Thos. Alvarde to Hennege.
Sends him 11 purses, containing emeralds, diamonds, spynealls, rubies,
and other jewels; some set in rings and colletts.
Hol., p. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1770. Joan Bayly to Lord Lisle.
Petition setting forth that she is the widow of his late servant John
Bayly, otherwise called John Musson, bayly of Stanydelf and Astons Thyng,
co. Warwick, of whom John Wystowe, learned in the law, borrowed 5l. 7s.,
which he refuses to repay, saying that the sum has been allowed to the said
Musson by lord Lisle.
P. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1771. George Gryff[yth] to Master Fowler, Under-treasurer
of Calais.
Reminds him of his promise to pay his half-year's annuity soon after
Midsummer. Will gladly give him 40s. at every payment. Knows he has
been evil spoken of to Fowler.
Hol., p. 1. Add. Endd. : 633l. 6s. 8d. Fl. fac. 422l. 4s. 5d. st.
R. O.
1772. Sir William Po[u]let to Lord Lisle.
Master Barantyne, I perceive, has written to ask you for his horse,
which you will not deliver without my assent, as he was taken in the bishopric.
He ought to have it on giving surety to pursue the King's laws; so you may
as well let him have it without more ado. I will see that he sends men to
give evidence next session against the prisoner. Senamton, Thursday.
Hol., p. 1. Add.
R. O.
1773. John Rolf to Lord [Lisle].
Has been ordered by Lisle's servant, Ric. Bell, to give up at Michaelmas
a piece of land called "Coxx," which was let to him by Nich. Person, Lisle's
deputy for his farm in Subberton. As he is not worthy to communicate
personally with his Lordship, writes offering to take the whole farm for a
term of years.
P. 1.
Add. MS.
29,431, f. 5.
B. M.
1774. Niccoluccio Vivacessii to [Henry VIII.]
I know that rumors have reached your Majesty, injurious to Joachim
de Osteteris, and me Niccoluccio Vivacessii, your faithful servants.
In consequence of a dispute about money matters with Richard and
John Grassa (Gresham?) and John Allen on St. George's Eve, they have
had him arrested, and done what they could to destroy his credit. Begs
him to protect them both from injustice.
Lat., pp. 3. Endd. : Joachim Hosteter.
R. O.
1775.  to [Cromwell].
The horse was stolen last February. The thief was Robt. Keyl, now
imprisoned at "Gnugat" (Newgate), who has confessed the robbery before
Alderman Alyn, and that he had sold the horse and trappings to Thos. Sacford
for 7 nobles. On which the Alderman wrote to Sacford, warning him to deliver
up the horse and trappings; and the Ambassador sent a messenger, who
spent, in the seven days he was away, about 3 nobles (et spese in circa sette
giorni che fu fora nobeli appresso tre). The Ambassador then sent Sacford
the 7 nobles, to avoid the trouble of prosecution; but he refused to return the
horse, but wrote to the Alderman, confessing, as will be seen by the copy of
his letter, that he had bought the animal for 7 nobles, and had the trappings,
but that he had sold the former for 15; which gives reason to suspect that he
is an accomplice in the thefts. The Ambassador, therefore, begs you not to
be any longer deceived, as he has shown all possible gentleness, and desires
to have his horse back again, with the trappings, which are of black velvet
and gilt.
Ital., pp. 2.
R. O.
1776. Treaties.
"* one party and Tho[mas Crumwell] ...
on the other party, witnesseth that the sa[id] ... hath
... of the date hereof unto the said Sir  Weston and , safely to
be kept to the use of our said sovereign lord the King within his treasury at Westminster,
all these writings, escripts, and muniments hereafter specified; that is to say, a warrant
[of the Ki]ng's highness for the valuation of the coin and mint, and changing of the
same. Item, a bull, under lead, of dispensation, for the contract of matrimony betwixt the
most noble king Henry the VIIth and queen Elizabeth.
"Item, a square box, whereupon it is written :Treaties made with Scotland, containing
sundry writings hereafter specified; that is to say, a commission to the abbot of Kelso and
Andrew Kereth for the treaty of peace and abstinence of war for one year, de dato primo
die Aprilis, A.D. 1521. A commission to the archbishop of Glasguensis, the bishop of
Moraviensis, the earl of Anguissh, and other, for the treaty of peace and abstinence of
war for three years, de dato 6 Januarii, ao 1525. An obligation of the earl of Anguisshe,
with the witness of a notary annexed unto it, for the approving and ratification of the
peace, de dato 10 die Januarii, A.D. 1525. A writing from the three estates of Scotland
to the King's highness, whereby they show and declare that they will in no wise remove
the duke of Albany from the governance of the realm of Scotland during the minority of
the young King, de dato 11 Februarii, ao 1521. A prorogation of truce and abstinence
of war betwixt England and Scotland, dated at Stryveling, 20 Maii, ao 1521. A minute of
abstinence annexed unto the abbot of Calc' (Kelso) his commission for the treaty of truce
with my lord Dacres for four months, &c., datum 24 Novembris, A.D. 1520. An indenture
for the abstinence of war for one year. A paper of the answers made by the lords of the
Council of Scotland to certain articles and qualifications exhibited by Mr. Magnus, the
King's ambassador there. A treaty made at Berwick, the 15th day of January, betwixt
the earl of Anguissh and the earl of Westmoreland, ambassadors for the king of England
and the king of Scots. A commission to the archbishop of Glasguensis, the earl of
Anguissh, and other, for the treaty of peace betwixt England and Scotland, de dato 28 die
Septembris, A.D. 1525. A ratification of a treaty made at Stryvelyng in the year of our
Lord 1499. A ratification of a treaty made at Ayton, de dato ultimo die Septembris
A.D. 1497. Minute of a treaty between the King's highness and the king of Scots. A
safe-conduct for certain merchants. A confirmation of a treaty of peace and matrimony
betwixt the most noble king Henry the VIIth and the king of Scots. A commission from
the king of Scots that now is, for the treaty and conclusion of peace, de dato 4 Decembris,
A.D. 1528. An indenture betwixt the ambassadors of England and Scotland concerning
the earl of Anguissh, de dato 12 die Decembris, ao 1528. A treaty of peace passed
betwixt the King's highness and the king of Scots, de dato 14 die Decembris, A.D. 1528.
"Item, another box, whereupon is written :Tractatus induciarum et commissiones, containing
these writings following; that is to say, Commissio Regis Christianissimi pro
tractandis induciis, de dato 10 Martii, A.D. 1527. Ratificatio induciarum Domin
Margaret, data 24 die Junii, A.D. 1528. Commissio Regis Christianissimi facta episcopo
Baionensi oratori suo ad recipiendum ab illustrissimo rege nostro certas pecuniarum
summas et ad tradendum acquietancias pro eisdem, data 22 Decembris, ao 1528. Commissio
Regis Christianissimi pro quietancia danda, sub dato 8 Augusti, A.D. 1528. Confirmatio
induciarum Regis Christianissimi, de dato 17 die Junii, A.D. 1528. Confirmatio
tractatus induciarum per Csarem, data 27 die Augusti, ao 1528. Commissio Regis
Christianissimi ad tractandum de modo et forma gerendi bellum contra Csarem, data
10 Martii, ao 1527. Confirmatio tractatus communicationis belli a partibus Flandri in
Italiam, data 22 die mensis Decembris, A.D. 1528. Commissio Regis Christianissimi,
data 10 mensis Martii, A.D. 1527. Summ pecuniarum Francorum regi tradit pro bello
Itali.
"Item, another square box, whereupon is written :Certain treaties and amities between
the King's highness, the Emperor, and the king of Castile, containing these writings
following; viz., Confirmatio amiciti per imperatoriam Majestatem, sub magno suo sigillo
et manu sua signata. Confirmatio amiciti per Johannam et Carolum reges Castelli,
Legionis, &c., sub magno sigillo dicti Caroli regis, manu sua subscripta. Instrumentum
publicum super juramento ejusdem regis solemniter prstito. Liter patentes, sub magno
sigillo Caroli regis, super abolitione horum verborum, proventus et emolumenta, et super
optione domino nostro regi in eisdem concessa. Liter indentat super abolitione
eorundem verborum, proventus et emolumenta. Instrumentum publicum super juramento
a Csarea Majestate prstito. Commissio Catholici Regis facta domino Bernardo de
Mesa et quibusdam aliis ad recipiendum juramentum domini nostri Regis. Scedula continens
formam juramenti prstiti a Csarea majestate sua manu signata. Protocollum
instrumenti super prstatione juramenti domini nostri Regis in prsentia oratorum Regis
Catholici de amicitia servanda. Scedula papyrea manu Johannis Heron, militis, subscripta
de quibusdam scriptis obligatoriis et aliis sibi traditis et liberatis, data 15 Octobris, ao regis
Hen. VIII. 9. Bulla sanctissimi domini nostri Pap de potestate concessa fratri Nicholao
Schonberg, ordinis prdicatorum, ineundi et concludendi ligas et amicitias cum principibus.
Protocollum instrumenti publici confecti super optione, &c., per Catholicum Regem domino
nostro regi concessa.
"Item, a little coffer, called a fosser, whereupon is written :The treaties made with the
Emperor at Windsor, containing these writings following, viz., Instrumentum submissionis
pro observatione tractatus Wynsori. Instrumentum de juramento Csaris super
indempnitate prstanda. Instrumentum de indempnitate obligationis fienda. Juramentum
Csaris manu sua subscriptum. Articuli tractatus a Csare non observati. Instrumentum
submissionis de indempnitate obligationis prstanda et observanda. Instrumentum
submissionis Csaris pro observatione tractatus matrimonii. Instrumentum
acceptilationis juramentum (sic) Csaris super conventionem servandam per dominam Margaretam
factam. Instrumentum super juramento Csaris de confderatione. Instrumentum
super juramento Csaris de acceptilatione. Tractatus Wyndesor factus super matrimonio.
Tractatus Wynsor factus super mutua confderatione. Ratificatio conventionis domin
Margaret de dote illustrissim domin Principiss. Commissio pro contrahendis sponsalibus
cum domina Principissa. Tractatus Calisi factus. Protestatio de non recedendo
a fdere Calisi facto. Tractatus de invadendo Franciam. Commissio pro eodem.
Tractatus pro duce Burgoni. Obligatio pro centum millibus florenorum auri facta domino
nostro Regi, data 12 Augusti, ao 1527.
"Item, another square box, whereupon is written :Confirmations of treaties made with
France, containing these writings following; viz., Ratificatio tractatuum pacis et obligationum
per tres status Lingu Occitan, A.D. 1527. Instrumentum submissionis illustrissim
domin Ludovic Franci Regentis. Liter Frauncisci regis Gallorum confirmatori
pacis manu sua propria script. Confirmatio tractatus pro regina Maria. Confirmatio
firmatio tractatus obligationis. Exemplum commissionis illustrissim domin Ludovic
de regentia Franci fact. Commissio domin Regentis pro concipienda obligationc.
Confirmatio articuli de duce Albani. Confirmatio articuli comprehensions Scotorum.
Commissio domin regentis de tractanda pace. Confirmatio tractatus pacis per dominam
regentem. Juramentum regis Gallorum et instrumentum ejusdem. Juramentum domin
Ludovic Franci regentis. Obligatio illustrissim de novis literis obligatoriis per regem
conficiendis. Obligatio de tractatu pacis per regem conficiendo. Obligatio regis Christianissimi.
Obligatio civitatis Rothomagensis. Obligatio civitatis Parisiensis. Obligatio
civitatis de Lyons. Obligatio civitatis Aurelian. Obligatio Burdegali. Obligatio de
Towrs. Obligatio civitatis de Amyens. Obligatio civitatis Remensis. Obligatio civitatis
Tholosi. Obligatio ducis Longovill. Obligatio comitis Saynt Pole. Obligatio Guillermi
Montmorency. Obligatio cardinalis de Burbon. Obligatio comitis Brienni. Obligatio
comitis Fuxi. Obligatio comitis de Malo Leporario. Confirmatio articuli comprehensionis
Scotorum. Confirmatio articuli de duce Albani. Confirmatio de dotalitio illustrissim
domin Mari. Commissio regis Christiauissimi pro tradendis et recipiendis literis
confirmatoriis pacis et amiciti. Acquietatio Anthonii et Johannis de Cavalary pro
summa 60,000 librarum. Acquictancia 64,444 coronarum solis contributarum guerris
Itali pro mensibus Novembris et Decembris, A.D. 1527.
"Item, a round box, whereupon is written :Qudam fdera sive tractatus inter regiam
majestatem Angli et Csaream ac Catholicam Majestates, containing these writings
following; viz., Tractatus amiciti cum Csarea majestate init et conclus de dato
29 Octobris, A.D. 1516. Commissio Johann et Caroli regum Castell et Legionis facta
domino Barnardo de Mesa super fdere ineundo cum sanctissimo domino nostro Papa et
Csarea majestate. Commissio Csare majestatis facta domino cardinali Sedunensi ad
tractandum et concludendum unionem, ligam, &c. Commissio Csare majestatis facta
domino Bartholomo Tyeyono. Articulus pro Helvetiis sigillatus per oratorem Catholici
regis. Confirmatio Catholici regis super articulo pro Helvetiis. Instrumentum publicum
super juramento a rege Catholico prstito. Instrumentum publicum super prstatione
juramenti regis Catholici et regin Castell per dominum Barnardum de Mesa Temopolitanum (sic) episcopum.
"Item, another square box, whereupon is written :Fdera et tractatus nonnulli, containing
these writings following; viz., Commissio Ludovici regis Gallorum ad tractandum
super matrimonio contrahendo cum domina Maria sorore illustrissimi regis nostri, de data
29 Julii, A.D. 1514. Tractatus pacis cum oratoribus Johann et Caroli Hispaniarum et
Navarr regum, de dato 29 die Octobris, A.D. 1516. Ratificatio comprehensionis Federici
regis Sicili, de dato 21 Junii, A.D. 1599 (sic). Commissio Ferdinandi ad tractandum de
pace, de dato 2 die Maii, A.D. 1515. Commissio Ludovici regis Francorum ad contrahendum
matrimonium, de dato 8 Augusti, A.D. 1514. Confirmatio tractatus pacis per Carolum
Hispaniarum regem, de dato 21 die Decembris, A.D. 1518. Tractatus amiciti cum
Catholico rege init et conclus, A.D. 1516. Confirmatio tractatus regis Gallorum, de
dato 11 Martii, A.D. 1595 (sic). Tractatus amiciti cum Ferdinando Aragoni rege, de
dato 29 Octobris, a0 1515. Confirmatio tractatus pacis cum Csarea majestate, de dato
12 Octobris, A.D. 1520. Juramentum regis Gallorum.
"Item, a wicker box, containing divers charters, writings, and muniments concerning the
marriage of king Richard the Second and Isabell, daughter to the king of France, to the
number of ten pieces.
"Item, another wicker box, containing these writings following; viz., Juramentum
Isabell Angli regin super acquietancia per eam facta. Acquietancia ducis Burgundi.
Acquietancia ducis Bituricensis. Acquietancia ducis Burbonesii. Acquietancia Isabell
regin Angli facta super restitutione sua et jocalium et bonorum suorum. Liter
auctorizationis et licenti dat regin ad acquietandum regem.
"And, moreover, the said Thomas Crumwell hath delivered unto the said Sir
Weston and , safely to be kept to the use of the King's highness as is aforesaid,
all these other writings and muniments hereafter specified; that is to say, the oath of the
citizens of the city of Cork and the town of Kynsall. Item, a writing of the oath of the
earl of Desmount. Item, an indenture tripartited betwixt the earl of Desmount and
Dr. Hatton, the King's ambassador in Ireland. Item, a book of certain covenants to be
concorded and agreed betwixt king Henry the VII. and Philip king of Castile. Item, an
acquittance testifying that the bishop Helnensis, councillor to the king of Spain and his
ambassador, and other have received of the king of England, by the hands of John Heron,
treasurer of the King's chamber, the sum of 40,000 angel nobles, which was lent by the
King's highness to the said king of Spain. Item, a general acquittance made by the
prior of the hospital of Our Lady without Bishopsgate to the King's highness. Item, a book of
the subsidy granted by the clergy within the diocese of Duresme. Item, a book of
the subsidy granted out of the archdeaconry of Richmond. All which said charters,
writings, escripts, and muniments before specified the said Sir  Weston and
knowledge and confess themselves by these presents to have received and had of the said
Thomas Crumwell, the day of the date hereof, safely to be kept within the King's
Thesaurie to the use of his Highness as is aforesaid. In witness whereof, &c."
Draft, mutilated. Endd.
Harl. MS.
2,076, f. 12.
B. M.
1777. Heraldry.
Visitation of Lancashire and part of Cheshire by Lancaster Herald,
24 Hen. VIII., by special commission of Thos. Benolt, Clarencieux.
Pp. 14.
R. O.
1778. Woods.
Extent of some estate, comprising the park, the wood, seven coppices,
two of which are called the Frith and the Slagrave, the Waste and the
Great Wood.
Headed : Mter Paulet boke. On the back, in Cromwell's hand : For
Mr. Downs.
The manors of Romborow, 21l. 0s. 9d.; Hyntelsham, 6l. 11s. 8d.;
Dodneshe, 21l. 13s. 2d.; Cretingham, ; Thorney Lezenes, in Stow
Markett, 40s. Total, 51l. 5s.
Pp. 3.
R. O.
1779. The Princess Mary's Stable.
Bill delivered to the Princess's Council by Wm. Chester, for a bridle
which he was commanded to bring up, 16d. Paid at Ludlow, 3 May.
ii. Bill presented to the same by Wm. Benet and Wm. Chester, yeomen of
the Princess's stable, for oats.
R. O.
1780. The Knights of St. John.
Licence to Sir William Weston, prior of St. John's, and the brethren,
to appropriate the rectories of Stanesgate, Steple, and Reynham, Essex, of
which the advowsons were granted to them by patent, 19 "Nov." (Dec.)
23 Hen. VIII., and confirmed by Parliament in 24 Hen. VIII.
Copy on paper roll. Endd. : A copy of the King's letters patent for
my lord of St. John's, &c.
R. O.
1781. Tower of London.
Indenture between Cromwell, treasurer of the King's jewels, and
Thos. Hall and John Kynge, carpenters of London, for the building of three
new houses to the King's use, adjoining to the King's lodging in the Tower
of London, of certain stated dimensions.
Draft, pp. 3, large paper. Endd.
R. O.
1782. Duchy of [Cornwall].
A "valor" of the possessions of the duchy n 24 Hen. VIII.
Large paper, mutilated, pp. 2.
R. O.
1783. Escheators.
A sheet endorsed "Nomina Escaetorum in singulis comitatibus
Angli anno r. R. Henrici viii. xxiiijto." This sheet contains only the
names of six counties, with a blank column for the names of the escheators.
R. O.
1784. Pluralities.
Information addressed to Master Crumwell, of the King's Council,
against Sir Robert Batty, chaplain to the Master of the Rolls, for having
obtained, without licence, in addition to two vicarages which he already
possessed, the one in Somersetshire, in the dioc. of Bath, and the other in
Yorkshire, in the dioc. of York, another parsonage called Tatenell, Staff.,
dioc. Chester; which three benefices he enjoyed together for a year, till,
having got into a dispute with one Sir Chr. Greninge, clk., by whom he
expected to be accused, he got one Rafaell Maruff to obtain a licence for
him, ante-dated by a year, which cost him 32l.
P. 1.
R. O.
1785. Gascon Wine.
The account of 63 tuns Gascon wine, belonging to the King, bought
at Bourdeaux by his servant Roger Basyng, and discharged out of a Breton
ship at Rye, and received into the custody of John Coveley, customer, and
John Prowce, habitant of Rye.
11 tuns sold by Prowce, at 4l. a tun. Freight, 30l., and expences, 12l. 10s. 2d.
Sold by John Coveley, and is charged withal to make account of rebating
5 tun pipe, the which went to the selling of the same wines, 46 tun pipe,
valued at 4l. a tun. 10 cr. of the sun, paid by Prowce to the master of the
ship, because Coveley arrested him, and caused him to tarry five weeks
longer than his charter partie did bind, and would not let him be bailed, as
Prowce will justify, 46s. 8d. To Coveley's servant, as a reward, 6s. 8d.
Total that Prowce charges Coveley with, 188l. 13s. 4d., whereof paid by
Coveley to "Maister Thos. Crumwell, master and theausaurer of our
souveraigne lorde the King's juells," 94l. 7s. 6d. Remaining in his hands,
due to the King, 95l. 5s. 10d.
Pp. 10. Endd. : John Coveley and John Prowce's accounts.
R. O.
1786. Canons of Exeter.
"Articles against the Canons residentiaries in Exeter."
(1.) The King is their founder. (2.) There are 24 prebends. (3.) The
canons are sworn to keep all statutes and customs of the Church, according
to a form given. (4.) The portion of a resident is assigned by an ordinance
of the Church, only 4l. being allowed to the non-residents; and a clause is
added that they have no right to murmur, as they can reside if they wish.
(5.) The canons resident made a statute five or six years ago that no prebendary
should reside unless one of the old canons' houses were void. (6.)
They have pulled down a single canon's house since making their statute.
(7.) The canons refused to admit to residence John Holwill, clerk, for whom
caution was offered by Thos. Sowthorn; as it was contrary to their new statute.
(8.) Thos. Wyse, canon residentiary before the making of the statute,
entered residence in his chamber, and continued it in the chaunter's place,
when there was no single canon's house void. (9.) Dr. Gybbons, Thos. Sowthrun,
and Robt. Weston kept their residence in the Bishop's place, and had
the whole profits of the church for the time. (10.) Dr. Brerwood kept his
residence in the Dean's house. (11.) The canons made a decree that John
Williams should have the next house void, John Holwil's interest notwithstanding.
(12.) Whether Williams at his entry yearly spent 40l. in promotions,
as the statute enjoins? (13.) How much of the church's money
Thos. Southern, Dr. Brerwood, Dr. Traves, and Thos. Wyse have spent to
withstand Holwil, against the King's interest? (14.) They will not observe
the statute that every canon shall go to his benefice after he hath made 46 days,
although the Bishop has commanded it. (15.) Whether Mr. John Wyse,
the late treasurer, had "decentem familiam," viz., six servants in wages,
besides ministers of the church? If not, he must restore much goods to the
church. (16.) Whether Mr. [Thomas] Wyse always had six servants since
his first residence? (17.) What is a canon residentiary's portion for 3 years
and 3 months?
Pp. 2. Headed : Doctor Gibbons cancellarius ac prsidens capituli
dissentit cteris canonicis in hoc negotio.
R. O.
1787. London.
Indenture,  24 Hen. VIII., by which Richard Pace, the dean,
and the chapter of St. Paul's, lease to John Stapulton, tailor, London, a
tenement in the parish of St. Dionyse Bapchurche.
Draft, pp. 2, large paper. Endd.
R. O.
1788. All Hallows, Lombard Street.
Petition of the parishioners of All Hallows, Lumbert Strete, London,
addressed to Cromwell as "one of the King's Council," complaining of a
bull procured from the Court of Rome in A.D. 1453, confirming a constitution
of the bishop of London for offerings upon holidays, amounting to
14d. on every noble; whereas previously the citizens paid only 12d. on every
10s. rent to the curates or parsons of their parish churches. This imposition
the inhabitants of the City paid under compulsion, but those of the suburbs
have successfully resisted it to this day. House property now fetches double
the rent it did when the bull was obtained, and there has been much more
building within the City, especially in the parish of All Hallows, Lombard
Street, "to the sum of 40l. or near thereupon," besides the increase of rents.
"Also the said parsons and curates keep none hospitality, and be not
resident;" and they put the bull in execution with great rigor, "being
therein both judges and parties." This bull was procured without licence of
the King or his progenitors, and the petitioners dare not obey it for fear of
incurring the danger of prmunire. Also the parsons of some churches in
the City, viz., St. Magnus, St. Leonard's Eastcheap, St. Benet Graschurche,
and others, have of late sued their parishioners for tithes on the strength of
the said bull, but, fearing the consequences to themselves of putting it into
execution, have ceased their suits, and agreed to receive 12d. on every 10s.
rent.
Pp. 3, large paper.
R. O.
1789. King Henry VIII.'s College, Oxford.
Manors, lands, and tenements, and other spiritual possessions allotted
and appointed for the King's College in Oxford, yearly value, 666l. 11s. 10d.
To the College at Windsor, 603l. 6s. 4d. Given by the King to divers
coopercioners, i.e., to Sir Wm. Fitzwilliam, treasurer of the Household,
Sir Adryan Fortescue, Thos. Downes, and other, 268l. 10s. 8d. Appointed
to be given to divers of the King's servants, 325l. 4s. 8d. To be exchanged,
319l. 14s. Total, 2,183l. 7s. 7d.
P. 1. On the back is the following :
"Priore de Shene, 150l. . . ijs. q. Abbat' de Waltham, 8s. Geo.
Colte, arm., 16s. 10d. M. et Soc. Collegii Christi, Cantebr., 66s. 8d.
Thome Barrat et Thome Pemberton, 13s. 4d. Magistr' S. Laurencii de
Pounteney, 6s. 8d.55l. 15s. 6d."
Add. MS.
672, f. 119.
B. M.
1790. St. James's Priory, Derby.
Rental of the priory of St. James, in Derby, 1532. Rents for land
in Chernewode Forest; tenements and closes in Derby; from the prior of
Lenton and the master of Burton Lazare; from the chamberlains of Derby,
for passage over St. James' Bridge on St. James' Day. Quitrents from Sir
Harry Cheverell for Parkinson's house in Derby; from the Trinity Guild;
the abbot of Lylsull, in Shropshire, for land at Blakforbye, &c. Total,
11l. 15s. 11d.
Copy, p. 1. Endd.
R. O.
1791. Walden Abbey.
Oath of Robert Barryngton, S.T.P., abbot elect of the Benedictine
monastery of St. Mary and St. James, Walden, London dioc., to obey the
bishop of London as his ordinary, to promote divine service in the monastery
and to improve its interests, to attend synods or visitations of the
Bishop, and to allow a sufficient pension to the late abbot, John Thaxstede, (fn. 22)
for life.
Lat., pp. 2.
R. O.
1792. Windsor College.
Lands and tenements given by the King to Windsor College.
They consist of manors, rectories, pensions, &c. in Lessones, Thoby,
Tonbridge, Begham, Ronburghe, Wykes, Typtre, Horkesley, Ipswich,
Sanwall, Canwall, Wallingforde, Blewbery, Raunston, Blakemore, and lands
acquired from Sir Robt. Utred. Total, 603l. 18s. 3d.
Lat., pp. 6.
R. O.
1793. Assault.
A complaint, addressed to Cromwell, one [of the King's] Council, by
John Smyth, porter, and eight others, touching an assault committed on
Smyth in the night by Will. Fysscher, serving man.
Large paper, pp. 2.
R. O.
1794. Francis Galyardes.
Denization to Francis Galyardes, a native of Rhodes, with a special
provision that he shall pay customs duty like a native, and not like an alien,
notwithstanding the statute 22 Hen. VIII. This licence is granted in consideration
of the losses he has sustained owing to the capture of Rhodes by
the Turks.
Draft, large paper, pp. 4.
R. O.
1795. Hugh Malet.
Wrongs done by Hugh Malet and his servants to Joan Rowswell,
widow, 24 Hen. VIII.
Robt. Bottler, John Hankoc, and John Pole, his servants, took oxen and
colts off her ground, and impounded sheep, without cause, on St. "Calstyn's"
Day. At St. Martin's tide they entered her house, and beat her servants,
and carried away some of her goods, and damaged others. On the Saturday
following they broke open her barns at Oke, and carried away corn.
P. 1.
R. O.
1796. Ambroyse Masson, Merchant of Morlayx.
His petition to the King for restitution of his ship and goods, which
were taken about a year and a half ago by inhabitants of Mynchett. Restitution
was ordered by the Council; but Gunston and Gresham, who valued
the property, have omitted the coffers and habiliments, and have valued the
rest at one third less than their value at that time. Asks that this may be
corrected, and that he may be paid also for his costs, according to the treaty
between the King and his dear brother and perpetual ally, the king of
France.
P. 1. Endd. by Wriothesley.
R. O.
1797. Richard Mors.
Petition of Richard Mors, priest, to Mr. Cromwell, the King's high
[Councillor?], setting forth his innocence of a charge of robbery brought
against him by Philip Warton, who was robbed of a silver bowl by Margery
Crese, wife of Ric. Crese, freemason, dwelling near Charing Cross, which
she employed Mors to sell for her, pretending that it had been given her by
lord Monteagle in discharge of a debt.
Large paper, pp. 2.
R. O.
1798. Henry Somer.
Due to Henry Somer, annuity for seven years from 18 to 24
[Hen. VIII.], 16l. 13s. 4d.
Lat.
R. O.
1799. The King's Jewels.
Report of Sir Thos. Awdeley, keeper of the Great Seal, Sir. Will.
Pawlett, controller of the King's household, Sir Will. Kyngeston, Sir Brian
Tuke, and Sir John Daunce, commissioners appointed by letters under the
privy signet, dated Eltham, 2 June 24 Hen. VIII., to take account of the
jewels and plate remaining in the hands of Rob. Amadas, deceased, treasurer
of the said jewels, and of a book of "Extra," signed by the said Amadas,
and to deliver them to the charge of Thos. Cromwell.
They certify on  day of  24 Hen. VIII. that on certain days in June and July
the same year, they have examined the accounts of Elizabeth Amadas, and the said
plate and jewels, and tested the weight. Three copies of this book have been made; the
first, signed by the King, the Commissioners, and Cromwell, given to Eliz. Amadas; the
second, signed by the King, the Commissioners, and Mrs. Amadas, and given to Cromwell;
and the third, signed by the Commissioners, Mrs. Amadas, and Cromwell, and given
to the King.
i. Jewels of gold, certain of them garnished with stone and pearl, and certain ungarnished :
The King's crown, of gold; the bordure garnished with 6 balacis, 5 sapphires, 5 pointed
diamonds, 20 rubies, 19 pearls, and 4 collettes without stones. One of the crosses of the
crown garnished with a great sapphire, an emerald crased, 4 balacis, and nine pearls, not
all of a sort. On the left side of the cross a fleur de luce, set with an image of Christ, with
a great balace broken, and a less balace, a pointed diamond, 2 pearls, a collett without a
stone, and a crampion without a pearl. Next that, another cross, with a coarse sapphire,
4 coarse balaces, a fair little emerald, a lozenged diamond like a heart, a ruby, 8 pearls,
and a crampion without a pearl. Next that, another flower de luce, set with a St. George,
a fair balace, a pointed diamond, 3 pearls, a collett without a stone, and a leaf without
collett and stone. Next that, another cross, with a large round sapphire, 4 balaces,
4 pearls, a collett without a stone, and 5 crampyons without pearls. Next that, another
flower de luce, set with an image of Our Lady and her child, a balace, a pointed diamond,
3 pearls, and 2 colletts without stones. Next that, another cross, set with 2 sapphires,
4 balaces, 8 pearls, and a crampion without a pearl. Next that, another flower de luce
set with an image of Christ, a balace, a pointed diamond, 3 pearls, and 2 colletts without
stones. Next that, another cross, set with a coarse sapphire, 4 balaces, 9 pearls, and a
collett without a stone. Next that, another flower de luce, set with an image of Christ,
with a balace, a small pointed diamond, 3 pearls, and 2 colletts without stones. On the
diadem above, 12 pointed diamonds, some better than the other, 3 triangle diamonds, one
table diamond, and 28 pearls, two in a troche, weighing 90 oz.
A pair of bracelets, with balaces and pearls, 7 oz. A gold sceptre, with a dove thereupon,
12 oz. A rod of gold, 3 oz.  q. A round ball, with a cross of gold, 17 oz. The
Queen's crown, of gold; the bordure set with 6 sapphires, not all of a fineness, two less
sapphires, 6 balaces not fine, 4 small balaces of little value, 24 big pearls not fine, and 8
small pearls; 6 crosses, each set with a sapphire, a balace, and 4 pearls, not great; six
flower de luces of gold, each set with a balace, a sapphire, and 5 small pearls, the sapphires
and balaces not fine, with a diadem and a cross of gold not garnished, weighing 47 oz. A
gold sceptre, with a dove on the knop, for the Queen, 6 oz. A gold circlet for the Queen,
set with an emerald, 4 sapphires, 4 roses of diamonds, 4 balaces, all set in roses, and 14
pearls, weighing with the silk 18 oz. A tablet of gold with relics, called the tablet of
Burbone, garnished with the Four Evangelists, 8 sapphires and 10 balasses, the glass of the
lever broken in many places, and divers of the relics shaken out, lacking one clasp, 177 oz.
Chains, enamelled of various colours. A collar with 26 garters, knit together with gold
laces, for the King's wearing, 28 oz. 1 q. A George on horseback; the forepart of the
George of diamonds, the mail and rivet of his cuirass of silver half gilt, a gold sword, a
lozenged diamond like a shield, and a gold dragon, 3 oz.  q. A piece of unicorn's horn,
not garnished, 3 q. A branch of gold, with five serpents' tongues, 15 oz. A collar of
lily pots, with a griffin of gold, the wings and hook silver, 17 oz. A gold horn enamelled
with red and white columbines, with a girdle of silk embroidered with red and white
roses, 7 oz. A gold bottle for rosewater, blue enamelled with gold butterflies, garnished
with 12 pearls, 13 oz. An image of St. George on horseback in a camewe set in gold
with a chain, 3 oz. An image of a woman in a camewe, 9 oz. A yard of Moyses
garnished with gold with the arms of England and Castile, 4 oz. A golden rose with 9
branches of roses, garnished with leaves and buds, and a light sapphire in the top, standing
on a foot borne up with 3 golden oxen, 21 oz. Garters wrought in the stole. A
device of gold, with columbines set with 4 coarse rubies, a light triangle diamond, and 6
pearls, 6 oz.  q. 2 gold hawkbells,  oz. A tablet of gold, with Our Lady graven in a
garnet, and a little pearl, a chain and a hook, 2 oz. 3 qr. A falcon of a cameo, the
head gold, with a garland set with 6 little coarse emeralds, and 6 coarse balaces; his
breast set with 4 coarse broken emeralds, 7 other emeralds, 2 coarse balaces, and 7 pearls
bordured about with little emeralds and 66 small garnishing pearls; on the tail, 4 small
emeralds, a coarse balace, and 38 garnishing pearls and 3 big pearls, 27 oz. A little
George, of gold, 1 oz. 1 q. A rose of gold with 9 branches, standing upon 3 acorns, and a
coarse sapphire in the top, 21 oz. A gold rose with nine branches, standing on three
lions' feet, and a coarse sapphire in the top, 19 oz. A casting bottle of gold, with a little
chain with a white and red rose in a bussell on both sides, 9 oz. A baldric of gold with
8 balaces standing between angels, with 36 pearls, 97 oz. A collar of Spanish work,
with 16 fair balasses, 6 great pointed diamonds, 2 great rocked diamonds, 2 great table
diamonds square-lozenged, one other long table diamond square, another diamond heartfashioned,
a table diamond sixsquare, a great triangle diamond, one long lozenged diamond,
and the Great Myrror, 88 oz. A bezaunte of gold, &c.
ii. Crucifixes of gold, certain of them garnished with stone and pearl, and certain ungarnished :
A gold crucifix with an image, 2 angels standing on 2 pillars set on a base of gold
holding 2 chalices, the cross garnished with small pearls, and 6 small balaces, 2 borne with
2 angels, 22 oz. 3 qrs. A crucifix of gold standing on 6 pillars, with 4 pinnacles and 4
pearls, the base set with an emerald, a sapphire, 2 diamonds set in 2 troches, with 4 pearls
in a troche; in the same base 12 troches or tuftes, whereof 7 are set with counterfeit
stones or glasses, and 46 garnishing pearls; on the base, 6 white harts crowned and
chained, and among them 5 bushes, and images of Our Lady of Pity and St. John Baptist,
set with sapphires, pearls, and glasses or stones; on the pinnacles, 32 small pearls, 2
angels holding a balasse, garnished with 16 small pearls; at the foot of the cross, Mary
and John, set with 41 small pearls; on the cross, a crucifix set with 2 balaces, 2 sapphires,
and 97 small pearls, 74 oz. A gold cross broken, with an image, standing on a silver-gilt
base; the image nailed with 3 pointed diamonds, in his side a balace, and on his diadem
2 coarse sapphires and other stones, the euamel defaced, and the arm broken, 40 oz. A
cross of the Holy Cross, garnished with gold with 6 light balaces, 2 light sapphires, and a
gold chain. A gold cross standing upon a mountain, garnished on one side with 6
diamonds, 8 letters of diamonds, on the other side a ruby, a pillar, a sponge, a spear, and
a ladder, of which one staff is lacking; 3 images standing on the mountain, each having
a diadem garnished with small pearls, 91 oz.; and two other crucifixes.
iii. Chalices, cruets and holy water stocks, of gold, certain garnished with stone and pearl,
and certain ungarnished. 4 chalices and patens, having engraved on them the Trinity, and
Mary and John, and the Cardinals' arms. 2 cruets with white and red roses on their
feet, and a pair marked A. and A.W. 2 holy water stocks garnished with diamonds,
rubies, &c.
iv. Images of gold, certain of them garnished with stone and pearl, and certain ungarnished :
An image of St. George, on a silver-gilt base, with a maiden and lamb, having 11 pearls
on her head; under his feet, a silver dragon with 4 gold branches; on the shield a balace,
and 8 pearls; on the sleeve, 52 small pearls; on the girdle, 5 coarse balaces, 4 pearls and 4
bells; on the baldric, 18 bells, 14 light rubies, and 17 small pearls; on the helmet, a tuft
with an ostrich feather, 2 balaces, 11 good pearls; a silver sword in his hand, with a pearl
in the pommel, 101 oz. A head of St. Thomas of Canterbury, of gold, on a base, with
6 coarse stones or glasses, and 6 troches of small garnishing pearls; a collar round his
neck, set with 5 coarse stones or glasses and 3 troches, each containing 5 pearls, and
1 troche with 4 pearls; the bordure of his mitre set with 8 coarse stones or glasses, and
7 troches containing 33 pearls; in the residue of the mitre 18 coarse stones or glasses, and
83 small pearls, 7 oz. An image of St. Christopher, standing on 4 pillars, the base set
with 13 sapphires, 11 balaces, and 68 small pearls; 3 trees set with 43 small pearls, Our
Lord on his shoulder, and a staff with a sapphire in his hand; 2 men at his feet, one with
a lantern, 62 oz. An image of St. George, of ivory, garnished with gold, with a joint of
St. George enclosed, 9 oz.
v. Paxes, tablets, tabernacles, and corporas cases, of gold, certain garnished with stone
and pearl, and certain ungarnished :
A gold pax of the baptism of Christ, garnished with rubies, pearls, and a sapphire, 10 oz.
A tablet or monstraunce, of gold, with an image of St. John the Evangelist writing, garnished
with balaces, sparks of emeralds, &c., 40 oz. A gold tablet set with 8 light
garnishing sapphires, 9 good pearls, the Trinity and 6 other images, gold, and closed in the
foot with costa Sancti Andre, with a chain and hook set with a light sapphire, 25 oz. A
gold tabernacle with Our Lady teaching her son, and an angel bearing an owche set with a
small balace and 5 good garnishing pearls; 4 angels bearing 4 light garnishing balaces
and a light table sapphire, with an image in the top and a little pearl, 16 oz. A gold
tablet of the Salutation of Our Lady, garnished with Margarets, 25 oz. A gold tabernacle
with byrrall, and within the byrrall, the Trinity, and Our Lady with her child in her arms, and
above the Salutation of Our Lady, St. John the Baptist, St. Catharine and an angel, 22 oz.
A gold tabernaele with Our Lady of Pity, with her son in her lap, with 2 angels behind,
garnished with a big light ruby and garnishing pearls, with a chain and hook, 10 oz. A
gold corporas case garnished with sapphires, balaces, and pearls, 169 oz.
vi. Cups, bowls, and cups of assay, of gold, certain garnished with stone and pearl, and
certain ungarnished :
A cup of gold, called the Dream of Paris, having on the cover the images of Paris,
Jupiter, Venus, Pallas and Juno, and Paris' horse, garnished with 19 diamonds; in the
5th border of the same cover 31 great rubies; Jupiter garnished with 10 small rubies,
and Paris' helmet garnished with 2 small rubies; Venus and Pallas each having one small
ruby on her breast; Juno lacking her chaplet; the horse of Paris having 7 small
rubies, having also upon 5 bordures of the covering 40 great pearls; Jupiter having his
garment garnished with 31 small pearls; Paris having one small pearl on the top of his
cap; Venus having two pearls hanging from her chaplet; Pallas having no pearls; Juno
having upon her chaplet, hanging down, 2 small pearls, and on her buttock other 2 small
pearls; the horse garnished with 27 pearls, great and small, with a small fane in the top
of the cover; on the foot and shank 26 rubies, 9 diamonds, 4 sapphires, and 34 pearls,
120 oz.
A cup chased with roses, flower de lucys, and Margarets lozenged, with wreaths
enamelled white, red, and green, a lion on the top in a basket, garnished with 68 pearls,
54 oz. A gold cup with lozenges H. and R. crowned, the knop crowned with a diadem,
with 5 garnishing pearls, 50 oz. A cup of gold and byrrall with 8 images enamelled on
the cover, and 4 on the foot, 17 oz. A jasper cup garnished with gold, 29 oz. A gold
cup graven with roses and pomegranates, with a red and white rose on the cover, 14 oz.
A gold standing bowl, pounsed with great martlets, the knop a crown Imperial, 77 oz. A
bowl of crown gold, "caret 5d. in every ounce," garnished with balaces and pearls; on the
knop a table balace and a rocky balace, with 4 fair pearls, and Sampson bestriding a lion in
the midst, 142 oz. A gold bowl with a cover, and the King's arms in a garter, with a
crown Imperial, 76 oz. A gold cup with a pelican on the knop, 58 oz.; another with 2
naked boys holding the King's arms, with a crown Imperial, 62 oz. A gold cup, the
cover having dragons' heads enamelled white and red, with branches of roses between
them, and chased with drops underneath, the knop having a rose enamelled white and
red, the body chased with running leaves, two angels on either side with the King's arms,
and dragons and greyhounds chased bearing them, the shank of the cup having running
leaves enamelled white and red, the foot pounced with droopes and chased with running
leaves, 58 oz. A gold cup with wreaths enamelled red and green, and on the knop a
dragon and greyhound bearing the King's arms with a crown Imperial, 65 oz. A gold
cup with 3 wormesheads under the knop, and upon the knop a white and red rose, 59 oz.
A gold cup with a cover, and thereupon an angel kneeling within 5 pillars, holding a
cardinal's hat, and under the cover, within the pommel, the cardinal's arms and hat
enamelled, 58 oz. A gold cup and cover, with an image of St. Katharine enamelled white,
and a wreath of pomegranates, 34 oz. A gold cup with a cover with the cardinal's arms
held by 2 boys, 59 oz. A gold cup with a cover and a crown Imperial, set with balaces,
diamonds, pearls, &c., with 6 letters of FF in the foot, 269 oz. 3 plain gold bowls with
one cover, with friars' girdles about the feet and cover, about the knop of the cover a
double roman A, and within the arms of France crowned, 298 oz. A gold bowl with a
high foot chased with the cover, and upon the cover a liberde's head rising out of a crown,
and in the mouth a great ring of gold, within the cover the cardinal's arms enamelled
under a cardinal's hat, 103 oz. In all, 40 cups and bowls.
vii. Candlesticks of gold for the chaundry :Three with pricks with H. and R. enamelled
red. Another for a "sise," with a stele, a chain, a pair of snuffers, and graven on the
backside with H and K, a rose and pomegranate, 9 oz. 2 others of Spanish work,
enamelled with imagery and flowers, with sheaves of arrows set above the base, 86 oz.
viii. Goblets of gold, whereof one garnished with stone and pearl :A goblet of glass with
gold foot garnished with roses white and red and a crown Imperial, the King's arms on
the cover, which is of glass, 12 oz. 4 others, wrought with roses, pansies, H and K, &c.
ix. Salts of gold, certain garnished with stone and pearl, and certain ungarnished :
A salt of gold with a cover borne up by a Morean having rubies and pearls about his
neck, and diamonds and other stones on the cover, &c., 46 oz. A gold salt, called the
Moresdaunce, with 5 Moresdauncers and a tabrett, and a lady holding the salt, set with
diamonds, pearls, &c., 147 oz. A gold salt with a cover like a branch, with a woman like
a housewife with a black hood, garnished with rubies and pearls, 23 oz. A gold salt with
a cover like a tower, with 4 portcullises, 5 vanes, 9 small pearls, borne by 2 lions and 2
small dragons, 22 oz. A little salt with H and K and red roses enamelled, 8 oz. 1q.
A salt with a camel on the cover, with a mother of pearl on his back, and a man enamelled,
his legs "crasid," the cover garnished with coarse emeralds, diamonds, and a ruby, 24 oz.
A salt chased with roses and pomegranates, the knop a portcullis. A salt of gold with a
"casaden" therein, with a cover, and a pale about the foot. A salt of byrrall garnished
with gold, red and white roses, 10 oz. A salt of gold with branches of strawberries, with
a tuft of strawberries or hawse upon the cover, 21 oz. A gold salt with a cover, the
shank a man kneeling on a green mountain, holding a staff with a pearl at the end, the
King's arms in a shield fastened to the staff, the foot garnished with coarse stones and
pearls, and the cover having a red and white enamelled rose on the top, 35 oz., &c.
x. Spoons of gold, certain garnished with stone and pearl, and certain ungarnished :
The devices on them are H.; H. and K.; roses and pomegranates; roses, portcullises,
and margarets; white and red roses; a crown Imperial, &c. The stele of one spoon is
"made like chessmen." A strainer of gold for oranges, 10 oz. 18 spoons of byrrall. A
gold spoon with an image of Jesus and a diadem set with emeralds, and a ruby, 4 oz., &c.
xi. Layers, ewers, and basons of gold, certain garnished with stone and pearl, and certain
ungarnished :
A layer of gold and byrrall, enamelled with margeron pots, having on the top 5 hanging
pearls, and holds no water, 50 oz. A layer of gold, the foot and body garnished with
balaces, sapphires, and troches of coarse pearls, and on the knop balaces and pearls, and a
lion holding the King's arms, 65 oz. A layer of gold, with 5 white harts on the body
and cover, garnished with pearls, blue flowers and chains, 19 oz. A gold bason, the border
garnished with red and white roses, H. and K., 132 oz.; and a similar ewer, 47 oz. A
layer of byrrall garnished with gold and pearl, 19 oz. A pair of covered basons of gold,
with friars' girdles about the edges and about the busselles in the bottoms, with the
busselles, the arms of France in a shield, under a crown, 333 oz. A gold layer, with the
words "Loyalle incure," upon the cover a white rose and a red, 34 oz. 2 great gold
ewers, the spouts serpents with friars' girdles about the feet, and upon the lids the arms of
France, and a shield under a crown Imperial, 255 oz. In all, 9 layers, 4 basons, and
3 ewers.
xii. Glasses garnished with gold and cruses of gold :A glass with a cover garnished
with 4 "squytchynes" with the King's arms, 12 oz. Another glass and 3 cruses, chased
with crowns Imperial, "hernes," &c.
xiii. Flagons and casting bottles of gold :
A pair of flagons with friars' girdles about the feet and lids, dragons upon the sides,
circles encompassed with friars' girdles and plates of the arms of France, 394 oz. 2 casting
bottles, one with a daisy on each side, and the other with leopards' heads rising out of
crowns.
xiv. Crosses and crucifixes of silver and gilt, whereof two of them garnished with stone
and pearl, and the residue ungarnished, with certain staves for the same crosses of silver :
A gilt cross with 3 images standing on a mount like Calvary, with a pelican upon the
top, 34 oz. A silver gilt crucifix, with an image of Our Lady and a King crowned with
a sceptre, and 2 rolls graven with scripture, standing on a base, with a vyse and 3 pins of
silver. A gilt crucifix with Mary and John, having on it roses and fetter locks, with a
vice gilt. A processional cross with a shaft of timber plated with silver; 6 wreathen staves
to bear the canopy. A gilt crucifix standing on a base, with an image of the Passion of
Christ, of silver, sitting on a mount, on his head a crown of thorn, a diadem gilt, in his
right hand a "roodde," and in his left hand a whip with a rope silver and gilt, bound
about his hands, with a pillar, a spear, a ladder and a sponge, the mount all gilt, having
dead men's heads and bones with snakes of silver white, 146 oz. A jasper cross garnished
with silver and gilt, Mary and John standing on the foot, which is chased antike-work, the
bordures enamelled and set about with 8 plates of pursulynes and counterfeit camewes; on
the foot before, an "amytis" in a silver-gilt collet; above the knop of the foot, a rose of
14 garnets in a gold collet, and above it a coarse sapphire in a silver-gilt collet; the cross
garnished with 6 amytis, 4 coarse garnets, 3 coarse balaces, a jasinke, 2 coarse emeralds
and 6 coarse pearls; the crucifix nailed on the cross with 2 coarse rubies, having a ruby
in the wound of his right side, and a diadem on his head, set with 4 pearls; Mary's diadem
garnished with rubies and pearls, on her breast a little diamond, and on the branch under
her foot 2 coarse emeralds, 3 coarse balaceys, 2 coarse amytys, and a coarse carsidon, all
set in silver gilt colletts; St. John's diadem garnished with rubies and pearls, an emerald
on his breast, a coarse emerald, and on the branch under his feet 2 coarse sapphires, a ruby,
a balace, 2 amytis, a cassiden and an emerald, 146 oz. A gilt cross with the images of
Mary and John standing on a mountain, the crucifix having a plate over his head with
the scripture, Jh'us Nazerenus Rex Judeorum; 3 angels with chalices keeping the blood
running from the wounds, with 4 evangelists at the corners of the cross; the cross having
a bolt of iron through it to make the joints fast, and a little flat staff of timber, 1,020 oz.
A great cross, with Mary and John, and 3 angels on a mountain full of dead men's bones,
on a foot with the King's arms, with antiques and other good works, all gilt and enamelled,
447 oz. A little silver gilt crucifix in a byrrall with 4 great pearls of mother of pearl, and
4 great glasses, with a shield and arms in a shield; on the foot, birds, fishes, and lions,
22 oz. A cross of the Legacy, weighing with the timber 175 oz. In all, 22 crosses.
xv. Monstrances, tabernacles, devises, and tablets of silver and gilt, certain garnished
with stone and pearl and certain ungarnished, with a coffer parcel-gilt :
A monstrance of the Resurrection of Our Lord, having a vice on his diadem, and lacking
four pins of silver under the base, 111 oz. A monstrance, silver gilt, with Our Lady
in childbed, and the Salutation of Our Lady with five angels, 28 oz. A silver gilt
monstrance with four angels and the Trinity, with a scripture in the midst, 208 oz.
A silver gilt tabernacle with a bone of the finger of St. Leople, duke of Oystryche, (fn. 23) 33 oz.
A silver gilt tablet, with the Trinity, Our Lady and 12 images, garnished with stones and
pearls, 105 oz. A parcel-gilt coffer with 4 relics. A silver gilt tabernacle or monstrance
of Paris making, standing on a mountain with two angels bearing it up, with red and blue
garlands on their heads; the King's arms in the midst, and an angel on either side; about
the mountain 14 cameos springing out of the root of Jesse, and on the base under the foot,
on either side, a camewe face, six pearls, four counterfeit "petitooes," four-square, and a
coarse camewe face set in the midst, all set in silver gilt collets, and branches of oaken
leaves; 11 pearls round the cameos; in the midst where the sacrament is to be set a
silver gilt foot, and before it a glass or birrall; on the backside a round silver gilt plate to
open, having a vice and a silver pin, with the scripture of the fore part of the same, "Santa
inmaculata Virginitas quibus te lawdibus," and on either side a jasper; on the base, pearls,
counterfeit sapphires, and a face of counterfeit jacinth, set in collets; at the corners of the
base a half lozenge set with pearls and counterfeit sapphires, and in the top a counterfeit
stone called a petitoo, and under it a great counterfeit garnet rockey; on the top of the
monstrance a crucifix held up by two dolphins, the back wrought with antike leaves; a
little monstrance or pix to set upon an altar at Easter with houseling bread, gilt, with blue
flowers enamelled, and the bottom and sides all byrrall, 23 oz. A tabernacle of Our Lady,
with her son in her arms naked, with angels crowning her, and angels playing on instruments
before her; on the other side a lily pot, and she sitting in a throne, with the cardinal's
hat, arms, and antique work, 536 oz. A table or tabernacle of Our Lord and St. Peter,
and Our Lord giving him authority of Holy Church, with a scripture, &c., 254 oz. Another
of Our Lord, and St. Thomas putting his hand in Our Lord's side, 249 oz. In all, 18
articles.
xvi. Images of silver gilt, and part gilt, with books of gospels and epistles covered with
silver and gilt :
34 images of St. Anne and Our Lady, Our Lady and child, St. Barbara, St.
Bartholomew, St. Philip, St. Mary Magdalen, St. Margaret, St. John Baptist, St. Peter,
St. Leonard, St. George, St. Thomas of Ynde, St. James, St. Matthew with an axe and a
book, St. Symonde with a crooked staff and a book, St. Margaret standing on a dragon,
St. Katharine with a crown, a wheel and sword, and St. Edward. The weights, where
specified, range from 40 oz. to 213 oz. A gospel book, one side garnished with silver
gilt, and a crucifix with Mary and John, the King's arms with red roses and pomegranates,
the other side purple velvet, with 5 bosses of silver and gilt, 62 oz. Another book of
gospels, with antique work of silver gilt, with an image of the crucifix and Mary and John,
322 oz. A book of the "pystelles," with an image of St. Paul, 321oz.
xvii. Candlesticks, of silver gilt, for the chapel :
2 great gilt candlesticks for the chapel with wreathen pillars, enamelled blue betwixt
the pillars, having 11 images in howsyng. 2 candlesticks gilt, with griffons on the base,
with the King's arms in the midst, with bolts of iron, 880 oz. In all, 22 candlesticks.
xviii. Holy-water stocks, of silver gilt, parcel gilt and white, with a font parcel gilt :
A holy-water stock with a stryncle, parcel gilt, with H. and E. crowned. Another with a
sprinkyll gilt, the belly graven with a griffon, a lion, and a Cornish chough, cross keys, and
cardinals' hats, 145 oz. In all, 6. A font chased with men, beasts, and fowls, half gilt,
with a cover gilt, 281 oz.
xix. Cruets, of silver gilt :
A pair of jasper cruets, garnished with silver gilt, chased chevorne wise, 43 oz. 2 gilt
cruets, with stones, handles, and spouts, made like worms' heads, 25 oz. A pair of coarse
gilt cruets, the spouts like dragons, and the lids with leopards' heads, 29 oz. Another
pair, with the King's arms, 50 oz. Another pair, the handles like dragons, and A. W. on
the cover, 29 oz. In all, 11 pairs.
xx. Chalices, of silver gilt and parcel gilt :
12 chalices, 11 of them with patens, having on them the Prince's arms; "Benedicamus
Patrem" and "Calicem salutaris;" "the Trynite thereupon of P. and A."; swans,
Stafford knots, and cart naves; the weight 20 to 51 oz.
xxi. Paxes and pixes of silver gilt, with tablets and boxes for singing bread, gilt :
A tablet of mother-of-pearl, garnished with silver gilt, of the Passion of Christ, 5 oz.
A silver gilt pax or tabernacle, of Spanish work, with Our Lady of Pity, 60 oz. A silver
gilt pix, graven with roses, portcullises, and fleurs de lys. A pax with an image of St.
Jerome. A gilt box with a cover for singing bread, chased with H. and K., with roses,
portcullises, and flower de lucis, and the knop without a plate, 20 oz. A pax with a
crucifix, and Mary and John, and the King's arms in the nether part, 59 oz. In all,
13 articles.
xxii. Sensours, of silver gilt, parcel gilt and white :
14 censers, 2 with leopards' heads, 64 oz. to 241 oz. the pair.
xxiii. Bells and ships for frankincense, of silver gilt and parcel gilt :
A silver gilt bell with an iron clapper. 12 silver gilt hawk's bells, with the point, 4 oz.
A gilt ship, with a little spoon for the chapel. A mother-of-pearl ship garnished with
silver gilt, having the cardinal's arms and a griffin on the cover, with a spoon, 27 oz.
In all, 5 ships and 15 bells.
xxiv. Powder-boxes and pots for green ginger, with forks of silver gilt :
A powder box like a castle, with a vane, 29 oz.; and another like a tower, with a spoon,
19 oz. A ginger pot with a gilt cover graven, lozenged with drops and leaves with a
white gillyflower on the knop, set with a rose of garnets, and a fair spoon and fork, 40 oz.
Another, with a greyhound and dragon, and the King's arms on the cover, graven with
roses and flower de lucis, 11 oz. Another graven with roses, portcullises, and ostrich
feathers, with a red rose and 3 ostrich feathers upon the knob, 23 oz. 3 qu. Another
standing on a base and 3 antelopes, with a cover, a fork and spoon, and St. Edward
on the cover, 45 oz. A fork with a birrall shank garnished with silver gilt, 3 oz. 12
articles.
xxv. Cups of silver gilt and parcel gilt, one of them garnished with coarse stone and
pearl, and cups of assay of silver gilt :
A cup of serpentine, garnished with silver gilt, with a cover chased like a rose, enamelled
with the 12 months, 25 oz. A great colloke or cup of serpentine, with a cover garnished
with silver gilt, 164 oz. A standing cup, gilt, of Spanish fashion, chased with "holine" leaves,
with a tower in the knop of the cover, 62 oz. A gilt cup of assay, 8 oz. A cup of assay,
with a little ring in the bottom, 5 oz. A nut of jasper garnished with silver gilt, with a
cover, with a lion on the top, and the King's arms, 46 oz. A cup with a silver cover half
gilt, and a maser in it, with an eagle on the knop, 20 oz. A cup with a cover gilt, of the
Almayn fashion, 40 oz. A double cup with a cover gilt, chased upright with men and
beasts, six-square, 67 oz. A cup with a cover gilt, with holly leaves and the cardinal's
arms in the pomel of the cover, 62 oz. A cup with a cover gilt, of serpentine, the cover
garnished with coarse stones and pearls set in collets and flowers of gold, 24 rubies about
the cover, about the pommel 4 coarse diamonds and 4 flowers of rubies, with 8 coarse
trochys of pearls, one pearl lacking, 88 oz. A cup with a cover graven with damask
flowers, on the cover sunbeams, on the top a purple flower, 40 oz. A cup with a cover gilt,
having a small circle of white about the foot, a great circle about the bowl, and another
upon the cover; on the cover a green mountain, and thereupon 2 naked children holding
a shield with the cardinal's arms in a hat, 83 oz. A cup with a shank wreathed, the bowl
a shell,about the bordure of the shell a swage green enamelled with the cardinal's "poose"
(posy), the cover having a swage, under the bartylment a blue amell, and therein these
words, "Ecce Agnus Dei," in the top of the cover, a castle on a green mount, 77 oz. A
cup "gilte arsid," having within the cover, A. L. I. N. in Roman letters, 63 oz. A cup with
a cover, chased with antique work, and a man standing on the knop, having a club in one
hand and a shield in the other, 65 oz. In all, 73 cups.
xxvi. Bowls of silver gilt :
A standing gilt bowl with a cover, having a double rose on the cover, with a greyhound
and a dragon bearing a crown Imperial, 26 oz. A bowl with a cover pounced
with roses and portcullises, standing on a foot graven with the reason of the Garter, and
the cover bordered with a crownett, with a rose and a ring in the midst, 61oz.
6 great bowls with a cover, with great martelets, 3 greyhounds, and 3 dragons, bearing
a crown, 751 oz. 6 plain gilt bowls with a cover graven with Stafford knots, cart naves,
and widows' mantles, 206 oz. 6 gilt bowls with 2 covers, chased with swans, cart naves,
Stafford knots, antelopes, and widows' mantles, and on the knops two double rings with the
King's arms, 338 oz. 3 bowls chased with martelets, with a scripture round the brim
having a Jh'us graven in the bottom. 6 large bowls with a cover chased with sunbeams or
stars, 324 oz. 6 bowls with a cover with great martlets, the feet of the bowl and cover
chased, and upon the cover two leopards holding a cardinal's hat with the cardinal's
arms, 554 oz. In all, 278 bowls.
xxvii. Pots of silver gilt :
2 great pots gilt, chased with leaves and rings, with 14 bullions under the bases, and
2 angels behind the covers, with 3 wings, 586 oz. A great gilt pot, with a handle, a
dragon, and 2 scutcheons with the King's arms standing in two lions' mouths, and a
crownett under the base, 417 oz. A great gilt pot with a castle on the top, and a vane
and men of arms in the castle, with 8 bullions under the base, 382 oz. Another, match
to the same, 379 oz. 2 pots chased with oaken leaves and rings, with 16 small
bullions under the bases, and 2 angels behind the covers, with 4 wings, bearing the sun and a
rose crowned, 336 oz. 2 great gilt pots chased with oaken leaves and rings, and under the
base 11 bullions, and upon the covers 2 castles with 10 images, 2 lions bearing 2 vanes
with the King's arms, and behind the covers 2 angels with one wing, 354 oz. A pair of
gilt pots pounced with martlets, with H. and E. knit together, 84 oz. Other devices are
portcullises and roses; H. crowned and E. and Margarets; daisies; columbines; Margarets,
roses, and portcullises, with H. and E. crowned, and the King's arms; flower de lucis;
feathers; H. and E. knit together; cart naves, antelopes, swans, Stafford knots, and widows'
mantles, with a swan upon the top; dragons; waterflowers; men hunting wild beasts;
damask flowers; flower de luces, pomegranates, roses, and caps of maintenance crowned;
angels and ciphers; branches with a crown Imperial on the covers, and "Dien & mon
droit," on the bellies; "Dominus michi adjutor" and the cardinal's arms, &c. In all, 160
pots.
xxviii. Pots of silver parcel gilt and white :
Two pots potelares, 119 oz. A little pot with a red rose of gold on ton the cover, 20 oz
2 pots white, pear fashion, with 2 knops behind the cover, 153 oz. 2 pots plain white,
with covers helmet fashion, 195 oz. 2 pots parcel gilt, with the cardinal's arms and hat
upon the lids, 322 oz. In all, 68.
xxix. Flagons of silver gilt :
2 great flagons chased, gilt, with the King's arms in the midst, of the Spanish fashion,
755 oz. 2 great flagons gilt, with 4 bowls, 6 spice plates, 2 basons, wreathen, chased with
bayles set in lions' mouths, 723 oz. 2 flagons with 2 bayles set in 4 tigers' mouths, having
2 basons in the sides and 2 lions in the tops, 722 oz. 2 flagons or bottles of stone, garnished
with silver gilt, coarse rubies, glasses, and pearls, 85 oz. A flagon of jet or touche,
garnished with silver gilt, 168 oz. A pair of gilt flagons with ships graven in the bottoms,
243 oz. A pair with the cardinals' arms and hats, 224 oz. 2 great gilt flagons made like
barrell ferrs, 1,175 oz. In all, 49.
xxx. Bottles of silver gilt :
2 bottles with stars on the sides, and great and small chains. A pair with chains and
the King's arms on the busselles, 217 oz. A little bottle with a silver gilt chain for rose
water, 11oz. In all, 13.
xxxi. Bottles of silver parcel gilt and white :
A little bottle with two small dragons, 24 oz. 2 flagons or bottles white, with the Princess's
arms, with chains and dragons, 244 oz. In all, 11.
xxxii. Spice plates of silver gilt and parcel gilt :
2 great spice plates with covers enamelled with 2 naked men with shields, 1041 oz. A
gilt spice plate with Venus on the top, wanting five pinnacles on the foot and on the top,
182 oz. Other plates are ornamented with roots and griffins; flowers, true love fashion;
imagery; waterflowers of the Spanish making; trayfoyles; branches, woodhowses, and
griffins; roses, portcullises, and a castle; and strawberries and diamonds. In all, 29
spice plates and 1 spice box, with cover and spoon.
xxxiii. Spice plate dishes of silver gilt, parcel gilt, and white, 64.
xxxiv. Candlesticks of silver for the chaundry, gilt, parcel gilt, and white, with plates,
stondysshes and snoffers of silver :
5 gilt candlesticks, chased with H. and E., 240 oz. 5 candlesticks for a table, graven
with H. and K. knit together, 160 oz. 3 candlesticks, white, bayne fashion, with pricks
and roses, 114 oz. A great plate of silver for lights, with a crown Imperial chased with
a great rose, 81 oz. A pair of snuffers with a dragon well wrought, with turretts, 11 oz.
A standish of Spanish work well gilt, with a box of silver for ink, 95 oz. 3 candlesticks
standing upon lions, 158 oz. 2 plates of silver for lights, with crowns Imperial, sockets
and pillars, and on the backside 2 bars of iron, 255 oz. 3 chaundelers, all gilt, with pricks
pounsid with roses, flower de luces, and portcullises. 6 candlesticks with pricks, chased
with leopards' heads and cardinals' hats, 296 oz. 6 candlesticks of the Almayne fashion
for quarriers, 242 oz. 37 items.
xxxv. Spoons of silver gilt, with forks silver and gilt :
A gilt spoon with a stele of birrall, 1 oz. 7 spoons with the Apostles at the ends,
15 oz. A gilt spoon with St. John Baptist at the end, 2 oz. A ginger fork with a
silver gilt spoon, 2 oz. 12 gilt spoons, slipped at the ends. 18 gilt spoons with half
knops and Stafford knots, 34 oz. In all, 13 items.
xxxvi. Spoons of silver, parcel gilt and white :
12 spoons with gilt columbynes at the ends, 23 oz. Others with saints, griffons, and
apostles. One spoon of silver, London touch, 1 oz. In all, 13 items.
xxxvii. Goblets and cruses of silver gilt and parcel gilt and white :
A goblet or colloke, silver gilt, weighing 30 oz. A goblet of byrrall with a silver gilt
cover, 37 oz. A goblet of jasper with a silver gilt cover standing upon three lions, 16 oz.
A goblet of white glass with the foot and cover silver gilt, with a woman painted sitting
under a tree, and a naked boy, 8 oz. A goblet with a cover with "doopes" gilt, having graven
thereon "Benedictus Deus in donis suis," and the cardinal's arms enamelled upon the knop
of the cover, 40 oz. 3 goblets with a cover, gilt, and a half knoppe with R. and C.,
64 oz. A gilt goblet with a cover, feather fashion, and upon the knop the cardinal's arms,
48 oz. 39 goblets and 47 cruses.
xxxviii. Salts of silver gilt :
Two gilt salts chased with waterflowers, 65 oz. A goodly salt with a cover set about
with three Kings of Collayne, and with the King's badges upon the base, 47 oz. Others
ornamented with dragons, Margarets, roses and portcullises, pomegranates, St. John
Baptist, antike work, red and white roses and scallopshells. A gilt salt with a cover and
4 feet upon a plate, and 4 holes for eggs, 23 oz. A salt of crystal and cassidony with
a silver gilt cover and flower de luces in the knop, 24 oz. A salt with a cover gilt,
the bowl of birrall, with Adam and Eve, 22 oz. Total, 48 salts.
xxxix. Salts of silver, parcel gilt, and half gilt :
25 salts, some ornamented with a naked child with wings, water leaves, and martlets.
xl. Basons covered, and basons uncovered, with ewers of silver gilt :
A pair of covered basons with a spout, gilt with sunbeams in the bottom, enamelled
with blue flowers, 174 oz. A pair of goodly basons double gilt, chased of the Spanish
fashion, one having a crown with the arms of England and Spain, 375 oz. Others have
the King's arms and labels in the bottoms; suns in the bottoms, and the King's arms in
the bussells; rose branches and small martlets : ostrich feathers; the arms of Wolster
and England; men, beasts, and the arms of England and Spain; &c. In all, 46 basons.
xli. Basons without ewers, and basons with ewers of silver, parcel gilt and white :
A round bason for a barber, parcel gilt, 57 oz. A white bason with the Princess's arms
in the busselles, 61 oz. A round bason white for the King's shaving. 2 basons and
1 ewer, having in the bottom the arms of Lincoln, and on the cover of the ewer a green
flower, 141 oz. Others with the King's arms. In all, 31 basons and 5 ewers.
xlii. Layers of silver gilt and parcel gilt :
A layer parcel gilt, of the fashion of a lie pot, with a bayle, 107 oz. A layer, gilt
and enamelled, of Sampson and the lion, 23 oz. A layer gilt and enamelled red, with
a woman and a unicorn, 19 oz. A fair layer with covers gilt, of the Spanish fashion,
well wrought with branches, woodhowses, and birds, 100 oz. Others are chased with
percherynge work; roses, pomegranates, and flower de luces; a sunbeam; a hedge on
the cover; a white strawberry on the lid; and monsters. A layer of birrall, garnished
with silver gilt, 30 oz. Two white barbers' pots. In all 25.
xliii. Ewers of silver and gilt, parcel gilt and white, with barbers' pots of silver white :
26 ewers, some helmet fashion; others with the King's arms; roses and small martlets;
dragons pipes, and girdles and double C. Weights from 22 oz. to 96 oz.
xliv. Chafing plates, "fimitories," and pans of silver gilt, parcel gilt, and white :
2 chafing plates, a fair chafing pan to warm a bed, with a long stele, parcel gilt, well
wrought, with letters and red roses, 61 oz. A fumitory for fumigations, white, with a
cover, 26 oz. Another, 28 oz.
xlv. Chafing dishes of silver gilt, parcel gilt and white :
7 dishes, one ornamented with portcullises, another with holes to roast eggs, with feet
and handles of brasell, 58 oz.
xlvi. Trenchers and cases of knives, of silver and gilt :
2 doz. trenchers gilt, of Flanders touch, 339 oz.; 2 doz. of London touch, 263 oz.; silver
gilt trenchers with salts at one corner. In all, 125 trenchers. Two great cases of kuives
of silver, parcel gilt, of Paris work, with covers, having the King's arms in bussells. In
each case 13 knives and a ginger fork. Two smaller cases with 12 knives and a ginger
fork and a pair of shears, 254 oz.
xlvii. Vessell of silver gilt :
A garnish of silver vessel, gilt, that is, 2 chargers, 12 platters, 12 dishes, and 12 saucers,
1128 oz. 4 dishes like "potengers," gilt, 75 oz., and other articles. Total weight, 7,904 oz.
xlviii. Vessell of silver white, with a "gridon," boiling pots, a ladle, and a chafer of
silver :
24 small dishes, 11 saucers, 2 chargers, 12 platters, 12 dishes and 12 saucers, 1,763 oz.
A little "gridyon" of silver, 10 oz. 12 saucers, white, of Roone touch, 141 oz. Chargers,
platters, &c., of Bridges making, 1,005 oz. A boiling pot of silver white for the King's
privy kitchen. Another, with 3 feet, for the King's meat, and a ladle, white. A chafer
having 3 feet, with a stele, with H. and E. 24 platters of silver white marked with the
world, 6 platters of silver white marked with 3 steropes, 12 platters marked with "hartes,"
12 dishes and 12 saucers marked of Flanders touch, 20 platters marked with the purse, of
2 sorts, and part marked with the pomegranate, and 6 platters marked with "hartes,"
3,665 oz. 4 chargers, 6 platters, and 12 saucers marked with B., 682 oz.
xlix. Certain parcel of plate of diverse sorts of silver, gilt and parcel gilt :
A round box for a running glass, silver and gilt, wrought with branches, 12 oz. A
play at "Ware Watte," silver gilt, graven with flower de lucis and roses, 15 oz. A pair
of balances with weights, gilt, with a case set with H. and R. and the King's arms, silver
gilt, 12 oz. A fair mirror on a foot, silver gilt, garnished and enamelled, 273 oz. A
toasting plate like a rack, silver gilt, 11 oz. A horn for gunpowder, garnished with silver
gilt, 30 oz. A box with a game of the chess, silver gilt, enamelled, containing 32 men,
20 oz. A constable mase, 29 oz. A strainer for oranges, 4 oz. A silver lanthorn with
8 bars. A serviatte, of silver gilt, otherwise called a voydare, with a cover chased with
running leaves, and on the knop a George and dragon, and 2 halfknops with the King's
arms, 189 oz. 2 fumes of silver gilt, with hooks and chains. A desk of timber plated
with silver and gilt, a goodly work, 173 oz. A table or "stole," silver and gilt, with iron
in it, to lift one on horseback, 197 oz. A crismitory of silver and gilt, with 4 beasts of
silver and gilt, of 4 pillars, 76 oz. 4 pipes white, for a cross staff with 3 pommels, gilt,
80 oz. 2 mases or pillars, 185 oz. An old maser with a bond and a base, silver gilt, 7 oz.
A black nut garnished, with a cover, silver gilt, 27 oz. The King's great almose dish,
gilt, 559 oz. The Queen's, 256 oz. A great almose dish like a ship, 278 oz.
l. A mitre of gold garnished with stone and pearl, with 2 bracelets, 2 gloves, garnished
with gold, stone, and pearl, and a crosier staff of silver and gilt :
The mitre has the nether border set with 2 roses of diamonds, 6 sapphires, 4 balaces,
12 troches of pearls, having 4 in every troche; under that 12 troches of 2 pearls each.
Above the bordure 14 whole troches of 2 pearls each; 2 other troches with 2 pearls. In
the fore part of the mitre, a bordure of gold, set with a cross of diamonds, 3 balaces,
1 sapphire, and 16 troches of pearls. On the right side of the fore part, an owche of
gold, with a large sapphire, 3 balasses, and 9 pearls, in 3 troches; the same side garnished
with 4 sapphires, 2 balaces and pearls, some wanting. On the left side of the fore part,
an owche of gold, set with a sapphire, 3 balaces, and 9 pearls in 3 troches; and the same
side garnished with 5 sapphires, a balace, and pearls. On the hinder part of the mitre,
a gold bordure in the midst, set with a flower de luce of diamonds, 3 balaces, a sapphire,
and 16 troches of pearls. On the right side of the hinder part, an owche of gold, set with a
sapphire, 3 balaces, and 6 pearls; the same quarter garnished with 5 sapphires, a balace, and
pearls. The left side of the hinder part garnished with an owche of gold set with a large
sapphire, 3 balaces, and 6 pearls in 3 troches, and 4 sapphires, 2 balaces and pearls, some of
which are wanting. The crown about the mitre is gold, garnished with 18 sapphires, 14
balaces, and 16 pearls, set in 4 troches, 23 troches of 3 pearls, and one troche of 2; 30
branches, of gold, whereof one is broken, with 18 pearls, wanting 2 seeds in two of the
branches. The two knops above have 10 pearls. The mitre is lined with crimson velvet,
and touched with clouds and branches of pearl, some wanting. Two labels cowched with
pearl, wanting very many pearls, and garnished with 11 balaces and 3 sapphires; the gold
pendants set with 4 sapphires, 18 pearls, 4 round bells of gold, one being broken and half
lacking, and 6 square long bells of gold wanting 3 clappers, having plates and pins of gold
upon the upper ends. 2 bracelets of plates of gold set with 12 coarse balaces, and 2 red
counterfeit stones, and 24 troches of 3 and 4 pearls. On the right glove belonging to the
said mitre a gold cross enamelled with blue, red, and white, set with a fair lozenged diamond
and 2 less lozenged diamonds, 7 rubies, 2 sapphires, 2 balaces, and 1 pearl, and a
great ring with a stone called a pontificall. A flower of gold on the left glove set with 4
diamonds, 6 rubies, and 2 sapphires, weighing together 112 oz. A silver-gilt crosier
having 2 pinnacles broken, with 6 images set in howsing garnished with pinnacles, with an
angel, lacking one wing, holding a great counterfeit stone, lozenged, set in gold, and in the
head two hands in clouds holding scriptures, with the crosier and staff, 110 oz.
A vellum book, pp. 92. Each page signed : Thomas Audeley, miles, custos sigilliBrian
TukeWilliam PouletJohn DaunceWillm. Kyngston.
Footnotes
1.  A modern endorsement says 25 Hen. VIII.; but as Sir Thomas Audeley is mentioned
as keeper of the Great Seal and not as Lord Chancellor, it certainly cannot be later than
January 1533, whereas the 25th year of the reign began in April 1533.
2.  This name is added in another hand.
3.  These three names are added in Cromwell's hand.
4.  These names are struck out.
5.  He was mayor of York in 1532. See Drake's Eboracum, 364.
6.  Christmas Day did not fall upon a Tuesday in any year between 1526 and 1537, but
the date of this document must lie between 1531 and 1533, when Cromwell was addressed
as one of the King's council. Christmas Day was a Monday in 1531, and a Wednesday
in 1532.
7.  This letter is certainly some years earlier than 1532. Probably it is of the year 1527
or 1528. Gold was instituted to the rectory of St. Mary Aldermary on the 10th Dec. 1526.
8.  The last clause is added in a different hand, and very faint.
9.  The names of Chr. Moreys and the master mason are added by Cromwell in a faint
ink.
10.  This title is written in Cromwell's hand on the fly leaf.
11.  Either lord Berners or lord Lisle, deputy of Calais. If the document be later than
1522 it must be lord Lisle.
12.  These are marked in the margin as paid.
13.  The date of this document is uncertain. It is placed here, at the period when Cromwell
was master of the Jewel-house, and was endeavouring to introduce reforms into the
office, or at least to ascertain the number and extent of the Crown jewels, when documents
of this nature would either be prepared from earlier memoranda, or else be copied
for his use.
14.  "Nostre Dame de Boulogne."
15.  Addressed as "your good lordships."
16.  23 Hen. VIII. c. 7.
17.  Qu. Sawyer?
18.  Edward Sutton lord Dudley, who died in 1530.
19.  The real date was 5 July 24 Hen. VIII. See Grants in July, 1532, No. 16.
20.  He was the last prior of Christchurch, London, and surrendered his house to the
King in 1532.
21.  Jas. Nedeham. See Grants in April 1531, 22 Hen. VIII., No. 20.
22.  According to Dugdale, Thaxted resigned 30 Jan. 1532.
23.  Leopold, marquis of Austria, 1096-1136.
PreviousTable of contentsNext
Footer menu
Help
About the project
Terms of use
Privacy and Cookies
Accessibility
Version 6.0.  2024, University of London