Revolutionary War New Jersey | Guide to New Jersey Revolutionary War Sites| New Jersey Historic Sites
Read the new Revolutionary War New Jersey coffee table photo book by the creator of this website!
Click Here for Details.
HOME
•
TIMELINE
•
ABOUT
•
FAQ
•
READ THE BOOK!
This website, its text and photographs are © 2009 - 2025 AL Frazza. All rights reserved.
Atlantic County
Bergen County
Burlington County
Camden County
Cape May County
Cumberland County
Essex County
Gloucester County
Hudson County
Hunterdon County
Mercer County
Middlesex County
Monmouth County
Morris County
Ocean County
Passaic County
Salem County
Somerset County
Sussex County
Union County
Warren County
REVOLUTIONARY WAR NEW JERSEY
Your Guide to  Exploring New Jersey's Revolutionary War Historic Sites!
Nothing creates an understanding of and excitement for history like standing in the actual locations where historic events occurred.
New Jersey played a central and crucial role in the events of the Revolutionary War. Throughout the state, we are  surrounded by links to   that history.
George Washington spent more time in New Jersey than anywhere else during the Revolutionary War. Many of the locations where he and the Continental (American) Army marched, encamped, and fought battles are still here to be explored.
Throughout the years of the Revolutionary War (1775-1783), the lives of New Jersey citizens were dramatically affected by the events of the war which went on around them. Some of their houses and buildings are still standing; each of these structures has its own  story.
This website provides the tools to help you find and understand these  locations which played a part in New Jersey's Revolutionary War story. It  contains photographs, information, and directions for  almost 650 Revolutionary War historic sites located throughout all twenty-one New Jersey counties.
From the Continental Army's desperate 1776 retreat from Fort Lee across New Jersey to the crossing of the Delaware River, from the Battle of Monmouth to the  brutal winter of 1779-1780  the Continental Army spent at Morristown, from the Battle of Springfield to Washington's headquarters at Kingston where he received news of the end of the war, New Jersey's role in the founding of the nation was vital.  Use this website as a guide to explore it for yourself first-hand.
Revolutionary War New Jersey
The ultimate field guide to New Jersey's Revolutionary War historic sites!
New Jersey Revolutionary War Sites • New Jersey Historic Sites
Website Researched, Written, Photographed and Designed by Al Frazza
This website, its text and photographs are © 2009 - 2025 AL Frazza. All rights reserved.