Ted Pedersen - Name Discrimination Data / Name Disambiguation Data / Name Ambiguity Data / Named Entity Resolution / Named Entity Disambiguation
Name Discrimination Data
This page contains data where ambiguous entity names in text have been
disambiguated. The data has either been manually disambiguated, or created
by conflating multiple names into a single ambiguous pseudo-name.
Kulkarni Name Corpus
This data was manually disambiguated by Anagha Kulkarni as a part of her
M.S. thesis. It has subsequently been used in our
IJCAI-2007 workshop
and
CICLING-2007
papers.
It consists of Google search results for
person names that are known to be ambiguous. The names have been
manually disambiguated in this data. Please cite her thesis if you use
the data:
Kulkarni, Anagha K.,
Unsupervised Context Discrimination and Automatic Cluster Stopping,
Master of Science Thesis, Department of Computer Science, University of
Minnesota, Duluth, July, 2006.
This data is described in the following
README
and is available for download
here.
Name Conflate Data
This is data where we have created artificial ambiguities by conflating
together the occurrences of person or places names. We typically
create this data from the English GigaWord corpus using the
nameconflate.pl
program
(CICLING 2006)
2, 3, and 4-way name conflations in Spanish, English, Bulgarian, and
Romanian. The Spanish data includes Bill Clinton-Yasar Arafat, Boris
Yeltsin-John Paul II, New York-Washington, New York-Brasil-Washington,
OTAN-EZLN. The English data includes Bill Clinton-Tony Blair, Bill
Clinton-Tony Blair-Ehud Barak, Mexico-Uganda,
Mexico-India-California-Peru, Microsoft-IBM. The Bulgarian data includes
Burgas-Varna, Franciya-Germaniya, Petar Stoyanov-Georgi Parvanov,
Simeon Sakskoburggotski-Nikolay Vasilev, BSP-SDS. The Romanian data
includes Traian Basescu-Adrian Nastase, Bucuresti-Brasov, PD-PSD, Ion
Iliescu-Adrian Nastase-Traian Basescu.
[paper with experiments and results for this data:
CICLING-2006]
(IICAI 2005)  20 Newsgroup data (email) by topic and 2 and 3-way
name conflations, including Tony Blair-Vladimir Putin, Mexico-Uganda,
Microsoft-Compaq, Serena Williams-Tiger Woods, Sonia Ghandi-Leonid
Kuchma, Tony Blair-Vladimir Putin-Saddam Hussein, Mexico-Uganda-India,
Microsoft-Compaq-Serena Williams.
[paper with experiments and results for this data:
IICAI-2005]
(ACL 2005 demo)
20 Newsgroup data (email) by topic and 2 and 3-way name conflations,
including American Airlines-Tom Cruise, Britney Spears-George Bush, Bill
Gates-Tom Cruise, American Airlines-Hewlett Packard-BMW,
American Airlines-Hewlett Packard-Britney Spears, Bill Gates-Tom
Cruise-George Bush.
[paper with experiments and results for this data:
ACL-2005 demo]
(AAAI 2005 demo)
2-way name conflations of the form Name-Name, Country-Noun, Name-Noun,
Noun-Noun, Noun-Verb.
(ACL 2005 workshop)
2, 3, and 4-way name conflations, including Bill Clinton-Tony Blair,
Bill Clinton-Tony Blair-Ehud Barak, Mexico-India-California, John
Grisham-Bayer-Bank of America, Bill Clinton-Tony Blair-Ehud
Barak-Vladimir Putin.
[paper with experiments and results for this data:
ACL-2005 student research workshop]
(CICLING 2005)
2-way name conflations, including David Beckham-Ronaldo, Japan-France,
Micrsoft-IBM, Peres-Milosevic, Rolf-Tajik, Egyptian-Jordan.
[paper with experiments and results for this data:
CICLING-2005]
Acknowledgments
All of the data on this page was created by
Anagha Kulkarni,  either
using the nameconflate.pl program she wrote, or via manual annotation.