Home | Xlibris Publishing
844-714-8691
SEARCH
search
cross
Search Keyword
CART
Services
About Us
Bookstore
Reviews
User Menu
Login
Menu
Services
About Us
Bookstore
Reviews
Resources
FAQ
Blog
cross
Please Sign In
Email
Password
Log in
Forgot your Password?
don't have an account?
Create an account
Continue as Guest
Write Your Own Success
While writing can often be a lonely journey, publishing your book doesn’t have to be. You and your work—be it a novel, true-to-life story, poetry collection, or children’s tale—can get all the publishing, marketing, and bookselling support here at Xlibris.
Xlibris has the expertise to guide you all the way:
Publishing Packages, Editorial Services, Add-On Services, and Marketing Services
Get Started
Our FREE publishing guide will walk you through the self-publishing process as well as outline the superior publishing, editorial & book marketing services.
Claim Your Guide
Reviews on Google | Read More
I've had a great experience so far. I will definitely publish my work and recommend it to other authors as well.
Bela M |  Share
Xlibris was a wonderful publishing experience. The book was very popular in America and around the world. I was happy to spread joy.
Jason R |  Share
I always had a wonderful experience publishing my books with them. Very caring and professional.
Kassi Y |  Share
Outstanding production. Excellent customer relations. Attentive communication and responsiveness. I am completing my fifth Xlibris book. The company and its representatives have increased--exponentially--my motivation to write.
Edward L |  Share
It's all about our authors
Author Videos
Become inspired by Xlibris authors sharing how their dream books became a reality, motivating advice for writers and future authors, and how their books are making an impact on others.
Watch Here
Signed Authors
Many authors has taken the self-publishing route as a stepping stone towards a successful publishing career. Take a look at some of our authors who have signed with traditional publishers.
View Titles
Bookstore
Xlibris has assisted hundreds of writers become published authors. Come dive into a world of reading, discover thousands of our authors’ special books, and perhaps  find your next read.
Discover
Is Your Publishing Journey Safe? Here's How to Be Sure.  Learn More
844-714-8691
Services
Publishing Plans
Editorial
Add-On
Marketing
Get Started
FAQs
Bookstore
New Releases
BookStub™ Redemption
Login / Register
Contact Us
Referral Program
Palibrio
© 2025 Copyright Xlibris  • Privacy Policy • Accessibility Statement • Do Not Sell My Info - CA Resident Only
E-commerce Powered by
nopCommerce
United States
New Zealand
Australia
United Kingdom