I Can We Can – Innovative Therapy & Adaptive Services
Home
About
Mission
Values
Vision
Services
Our Locations
Contact
Welcome to I Can We Can!
Curious About Our Innovative Services?
Our experienced team of licensed professionals offers therapy, counseling & adaptive programs for children, teens & young adults ages birth to 21 with a variety of special needs. While we do offer clinical-based services on a small-scale, our focus is on community settings (often times integrated alongside typical peers) that further engage, and in the end further benefit your child.
Our Mission
I Can We Can aims to empower children, teens & young adults with special needs through the use of Aquatic & Art-based services.  These unique & innovative settings provide countless opportunities for meaningful engagement that challenge and support each individual on their journey to personal growth & development.
Our Values
Connection: ICWC services are brought to your family from ours. We pride ourselves on being available to you and your family when needed. When you join our team, you’ll definitely discover that maintaining close-knit relationships is a priority for us.
Empowerment: We believe that together we CAN achieve more! Through providing valuable information & services, together we will journey down the road of greater self empowerment.
Support: Parents: We know you have your hands full! Let us create a plan for your child that works for the entire family. Whether we are seeing your child for therapy or adaptive programming, one of our goals is to introduce your child to new activities they’re sure to enjoy. In time, you’ll almost certainly find that your entire family can benefit from & enjoy that setting together! Whether that means a trip to the local water park you previously feared or attending a Tuesday night art class, we’re certain your whole family will reap the benefits.
Flexibility: Being flexible is more than a skill to work on in therapy. It’s a mentality that allows us to consider & meet the multifaceted needs of our participants. Every one of our participants is unique, which is why we are so flexible from the very beginning. Reap the benefits of our flexibility with things like afternoon, evening & even weekend hours or hands-free, no involvement insurance claims processing!
Our Vision
At ICWC, we strive to create an enjoyable & encouraging experience for all of our participants. We utilize innovative, community-based settings that participants want to be a part of, so they begin sessions with a willingness to improve upon skills they’ve previously struggled with. We want participants to not only reach their milestones, but surpass them as they continue on their path towards personal development & empowerment.
Services We Provide
Occupational Therapy (Clinic & Aquatic-based) treatment focuses on helping persons with a physical, sensory, or cognitive disability be as independent as possible in all areas of their lives. OT can help a person with various needs improve their cognitive, physical, sensory, and motor skills and enhance their self-esteem and sense of accomplishment. Some people may think that occupational therapy is only for adults; kids, after all, do not have occupations. But a child’s main job is playing and learning, and occupational therapists can evaluate kids’ skills for playing, school performance, and daily activities and compare them with what is developmentally appropriate for that age group. According to the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA), in addition to dealing with an someone’s physical well-being, OT practitioners address psychological, social, and environmental factors that can affect functioning in different ways. This approach makes OT a vital part of health care for some kids.
Physical Therapy (Clinic & Aquatic-based) Doctors often recommend Physical Therapy (PT) for kids, teens & young adults who have been injured or who have movement problems from an illness, disease, or disability. After an injury, Physical Therapists work to decrease pain and help patients return to daily activities. They teach exercises designed to help their patients regain strength and range of motion, and also show kids and families how to prevent future injuries. Physical Therapy might be needed any time a problem with movement limits someone’s daily activities.
Adaptive Swim Lessons (1:1 & Small-Group) – In-Person ONLY
Summer Swim Camp – Safety & Basics – In-Person ONLY
Adaptive Art Lessons (1:1 & Small-Group) – Virtual ONLY
Mental Health Counseling – LCSW (Art-Based) – Virtual ONLY
Group Social Skills Classes – Virtual ONLY
Who Can Benefit from Our Services
We offer services for children, teens & young adults ages birth to 21
Diagnoses include, but are not limited to:
ADD & ADHD
Autism Spectrum Disorders
Birth Injuries or Birth Defects
Sensory Processing Disorders
Traumatic Injuries (Brain or Spinal Cord)
Learning Difficulties
Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis
Mental Health or Behavioral Problems
Spina Bifida
Cerebral Palsy
Developmental Delays
Post-Surgical Conditions
Traumatic Amputations
Multiple Sclerosis
Angleman Syndrome
Get in Touch With Us
Your name
Your email
Subject
Your message (optional)