Airville Sangster International Airport | Margaritaville Caribbean
Plan Your Vacation
Menu
Plan Your Vacation
Locations
Montego Bay
Negril
Ocho Rios
Airville
Grand Turk
Group Events
About Us
Shop
Stories From ParadiseOur Blog
×
Welcome to
Air Margaritaville
Long Live Island Life!
Your first drink in paradise and your last moment of island-time. Located in Montego Bay’s Sangster International Airport, Air Margaritaville’s two locations are here to ensure every moment of your vacation is spent in paradise.
Saddle up to be the bar, sip on a margarita, and sing your heart out to your favorite Buffett tune. Take in the familiar sights and sounds, and leave a lasting reminder of your getaway with an autograph on the bar, wall—anywhere really, we’re easy going like that.
With spectacular ocean views and a distinctly island-vibe, let us extend your vacay and send you off refreshed, relaxed, and revitalized. For more information call 876.957.4467 or email [email protected]. Jimmy Buffett’s Margaritaville, Sangster International Airport, Montego Bay, Jamaica.
Appetizers
Soups & Salads
Chef’s Specials
Burgers
Sandwiches
Desserts
No Feathers
Appetizers
Volcano Nachos
Jalapeños, tomatoes, scallions, chili, and mounds of melted cheese heaped on a mountain of crispy tortilla chips. Topped with cool guacamole and sour cream. $20.95
Add Chicken or Pork for $4.95
Add Shrimp for $8.95
Blackened Mini Shrimp Tacos
Succulent shrimp coated with our blackened seasoning and chipotle-lime-cilantro aioli. Served in four mini flour tortillas with flavorful pico de gallo, sour cream, and cotija cheese. $15.95
Jerk Pork Tacos
Tender braised pork, served with caramelized onions in four mini tortillas. Topped with pico de gallo, sour cream, and cotillo cheese. $15.95
Lava Lava Shrimp
Plump, lightly-breaded shrimp, fried golden, and tossed with our savory Asian aioli sauce. Piled high on your plate and lightly sprinkled with black and white sesame seeds. $16.95
Chicken Quesadillas
Tortillas filled with mixed cheese, grilled chicken, roasted chili peppers, caramelized onions, and fresh cilantro. Served with sliced avocados and sour cream and guacamole Chicken. $15.95
Pork $19.95 | Shrimp $20.95
Chicken Wings
Seasoned chicken wings cooked until crispy and tossed in your choice of Buffalo or Jerk BBQ sauce. Served with creamy ranch or tangy bleu cheese dipping sauce. $15.95
Island Calamari
Tender, sweet calamari, lightly breaded and fried golden brown. Served with Cajun aioli sauce for dipping. $16.75
Appetizer Platter
A delicious combination of Lava Lava Shrimp, Chicken Quesadillas, Chicken Wings, and a creamy spinach dip with crispy corn tortilla chips. $32.95
Soups & Salads
Island Taco Salad
Grilled fajita-style chicken with black beans, corn salsa, shredded cheese, guacamole, and sour cream on a bed of mixed greens. Served with crispy fried tortillas and a zesty chipotle ranch dressing. $17.95
Seafood Chowder
A creamy, smoky chowder loaded with roasted corn and a generous amount of Caribbean seafood. $9.95
Blackened Chicken Cobb Salad
Chopped greens tossed with a tangy honey mustard dressing, blackened chicken, applewood-smoked bacon, eggs, fresh guacamole, tomatoes, and Gorgonzola cheese. $18.95
Caribbean Shrimp & Citrus Salad
Crispy salad mixed with pecans, sweet peppers, carrots, guacamole, sweet pineapple and oranges. Topped with citrus marinated shrimp and our signature paradise island vinaigrette. $19.95
Chef’s Specials
Coconut Shrimp
Plump, jumbo skewered shrimp, breaded with coconut batter and fried crispy and golden. Served with orange horseradish marmalade, whipped potatoes, and seasonal vegetables. $23.95
Mango Tango Salmon
Atlantic salmon grilled to perfection, glazed with our house-made Mango Tango BBQ sauce then garnished with flavourful mango pico de gallo. Served with seasonal vegetables and Island rice. $27.95
Fish Tacos
Crispy fried fish in our signature beer batter, wrapped in three grilled, flour tortillas. Layered with fresh avocado and lettuce, then drizzled with habanero cream sauce. Served with mango pico de gallo and your choice of island rice or French fries. $21.95
Jerk BBQ Chicken
Semi-boneless half chicken marinated in authentic jerk spices, roasted island style, and covered with a distinctive jerk BBQ sauce. Served with seasonal vegetables and island rice. $21.95
Margarita Pasta
Your choice of tasty shrimp, chicken or vegetables sautéed with shallots, cilantro, and fresh lime juice. Served with our delicious cream sauce over bowtie pasta and topped with cotija cheese.
Vegetarian $19.95 | Chicken $18.95 | Shrimp $23.95
Burgers
Cheese Burger in Paradise
So good Jimmy wrote a song about it – topped with velvety melted American cheese, Paradise Island Dressing, with lettuce and tomato, Heinz 57 and French fried potatoes.
Single $15.95 | Double $18.95
B.O.B. BURGER
(Bacon, Onion, Bleu Cheese)
Layered with applewood-smoked bacon, shoe string onion rings, bleu cheese dressing, lettuce and tomatoes. This full-flavored burger is topped with Gorgonzola cheese crumbles and served on a buttery brioche bun. $17.95
Jerk BBQ Cheeseburger
Smothered in island style jerk BBQ sauce, smoked bacon, rich cheddar cheese, lettuce and tomato. $17.95
Beyond Burger
Vegan patty on a brioche bun, topped with pepper jack cheese, lettuce, sliced tomato, pickles and mayonnaise. $18.95
Sides
All burgers served with French fries
ONION RINGS $5.75
FRENCH FRIES $3.75
SWEET POTATO FRIES $3.95
VEGETABLE MEDLEY $3.75
SIDE SALAD $3.95
ISLAND RICE & PEAS $3.95
CARIBBEAN COLESLAW $3.75
Sandwiches
Turkey Club Sandwiches
Layers of sliced turkey, stacked high on toasted white bread with Swiss cheese, smoked bacon, lettuce, tomato and mayonnaise. $17.95
Island Fish Sandwich
Our Signature lightly breaded fish, golden fried to perfection and topped with a tasty Cajun remoulade sauce. Served on a brioche bun with coleslaw
and tomato. $16.95
Honey Mustard Chicken Sandwich
A marinated chicken breast topped with applewood-smoked bacon, Swiss cheese, creamy guacamole, lettuce and tomato. Served on a brioche bun with honey mustard dressing. $16.95
Jerk Pulled Pork Sandwich
Tender, slow-cooked pulled pork, topped with Caribbean coleslaw and shoe string onion rings, served on a buttered brioche bun. $16.95
Blackened Sandwich
A juicy, flavorful chicken breast coated with our blackened seasoning blend and served on a buttered brioche bun with lettuce, tomato, pepper jack cheese and Cajun remoulade sauce. $16.95
Desserts
Key Lime Pie
A cool, creamy pie made with real Key limes – perfectly tart, sweet, and aromatic with a graham cracker crust and whipped cream. $9.95
Rum Cake
A moist yellow cake flavored with Caribbean rum served with raspberry sauce and whipped cream. $9.95
No Feathers
Watermelon Hydrator
Watermelon, cranberry juice, soda water, lemon lime. $4.95
Island Fizz
Grapefruit juice, lime juice, soda water. $4.95
Cranberry Cooler
Cranberry juice, lime juice, ginger beer. $4.95
Nana Berry Blast
Strawberry and banana smoothie. $6.95
Taste of the tropics
Coconut and pineapple smoothie. $6.95
Unchartered Territory
Fruit-flavored daiquiris, choice of strawberry, banana or mango fruit blend. $6.95
Lemonade Stand
Blissful fruit mix and our signature lemonade. Choice of mango, strawberry or watermelon. $4.95
Soft drinks  Iced Tea
$3.50
Juice – Lemonade
$3.50
Hot Tea & Coffee
$3.50
Bottled Water Small
$3.50
Bottled Water Large
$5.50
Red Bull
$5.00
Download Menu
Photo
Gallery
« Prev
B.O.B. Burger
Turkey Club Sandwich
Island Taco Salad
Our Trouble in Paradise burger
Coconut shrimp
Next »
« Prev
Next »
Our Guests Know How To
Have Fun!
About Us
Careers
FAQs
Privacy Policy
Margaritaville.com
Radio Margaritaville
Copyright 2017 Jimmy Buffett’s Margaritaville. All Rights Reserved.
Hi there! Just wanted to let you know that this site uses cookies to assist with navigation, provide secure login, remember your preferences, analyze your use of our products and services and collect statistics to optimize site functionality. Wanna know more details? Check out our Privacy Policy.
Accept