Tourist Attractions in Montreal | PlanetWare
Explore Your World
Europe
North America
Caribbean
Central & South America
Africa & Middle East
Asia & Pacific
× Close
Popular
Canada Travel Guide
Tourist Attractions in Canada
Tourist Attractions in Toronto
Tourist Attractions in Niagara Falls, Canada
Tourist Attractions in Montreal
Written by Chloë Ernst and Michael Law Updated Dec 26, 2023
Author Michael Law visits Montreal on a regular basis.
A dynamic city known for its fashion sense, fine hotels, exceptional cuisine, and historical quarters, Montreal is one of the best cities in Canada to visit.
Despite the city's size, the best places to visit in Montreal are in relatively compact neighborhoods, making hitting all the key sights easy.
Rue Saint-Paul in Old Montreal (Vieux-Montreal) | Photo Copyright: Lana LawVieux-Montreal is where the city began, and its old buildings and cobblestone streets make it the most picturesque neighborhood in the city. This is where you'll also find the popular waterfront promenade along the Vieux-Port (Old Port).
Major museums and arts venues are in the Centre-Ville (downtown) area, where you'll find Rue Sherbrooke, probably the city's most elegant thoroughfare. Need a new outfit to head out on the town? Rue Ste-Cathérine, Montréal's main place to visit for shopping, is a busy street lined with department stores, shops, and trendy restaurants.
For a dose of French culture, head to The Plateau, the heart of French-speaking Montreal. Strolling along Rue St. Denis often feels like being in Paris, with its smart boutiques, restaurants, and sidewalk cafés.
Montreal is a popular weekend getaway from Toronto. Flights leave on the hour for the one-hour jaunt.
Plan your trip with our list of the top attractions and things to do in Montreal below.
On This Page:
Wander through Old Montreal (Vieux-Montréal)
Explore the Old Port (Vieux-Port)
See the View from Mont-Royal
Jardin Botanique (Botanical Garden)
Notre-Dame Basilica
Oratoire Saint-Joseph (St. Joseph's Oratory)
Parc Jean Drapeau
Montreal Biodome
Musée des Beaux Arts (Fine Arts Museum)
Pointe-à-Callière
Place des Arts
Shop at Atwater and Jean-Talon Markets
St. Mary Queen of the World
McCord Museum
Square Saint-Louis and Rue Denis
Lachine Canal National Historic Site
Chinatown
Ride La Grande Rou de Montreal
Montreal Science Centre
Map of Attractions & Things to Do in Montreal
Wander through Old Montreal (Vieux-Montréal)
Vieux-Montreal (Old Montreal) Old Montréal is tourist central in Montréal. The area is home to a remarkable concentration of buildings dating from the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries and has the delightful feel of a Parisian-style quarter. Many of these historic buildings are now hotels, restaurants, galleries, and souvenir shops. If you are looking to base yourself in the city for a few days of sightseeing, this is the best place to stay.
Its many historic sites, streets, and landmarks are easily explored on foot. Of the many things to do here, the highlights are visiting the Notre-Dame Basilica, strolling down Rue Saint-Paul, wandering around Bonsecours Market, and enjoying the open-air gathering space of Place Jacques-Cartier. For a little urban adventure, on the waterfront head to the huge Ferris wheel (La Grand roue de Montréal) and the Tyrolienne MTL zipline.
In the evening, Old Montreal comes to life with patios and restaurants lining the streets. In the summer, you can dine outdoors, either street-side or on rooftop patios.
Read More: Tourist Attractions in Old Montréal
Explore the Old Port (Vieux-Port)
Old Port (Vieux-Port)As you wander around Old Montreal, you'll most likely end up in the lively area by the Saint Lawrence River known as the Old Port (Vieux-Port). Here, you'll find plenty of things to do, from riding the giant Ferris wheel or climbing the famous clock tower, right through to screaming down a zipline that descends from dizzying heights across open stretches of water.
More sedate options include strolling the area and taking in some of the 10 fascinating displays of public art, catching a show at the IMAX theater, or brushing up on your knowledge at the Montreal Science Center. If even those options sound exhausting, grab a coffee and sit on one of the sunny patios and just soak up the scene.
Beach at the Old Port | Photo Copyright: Lana LawIn the summer, boat tours leave from the docks here. If you really want to soak up the sun there is even a man-made beach at the base of the clocktower with views back to the city or out over the river. In the winter, strap on your skates and take a twirl on the huge ice-skating rink.
See the View from Mont-Royal
View of Montreal from Mont Royal Mont-Royal rises 233 meters above the city and is the green lung near the city center. A stroll through this lovely park enables the visitor to see monuments to Jacques Cartier and King George VI. Be sure to spend some time by Lac-aux-Castors, and to have a look at the cemeteries on the western slope where the city's different ethnic groups have rested in peace together for centuries.
From the summit, or rather from a platform below the cross,  unfolds a magnificent panorama of the whole of the 51-kilometer length of the Île de Montréal and the St. Lawrence. On clear days, the view extends to the Adirondack Mountains in the United States of America.
Jardin Botanique (Botanical Garden)
Jardin Botanique (Botanical Garden) High above the city in the grounds that hosted the 1976 Summer Olympic Games, Parc Maisonneuve (Pie IX Metro) is the site of Montreal's wonderfully imaginative Jardin Botanique. The diverse plants are grown in 30 themed gardens and 10 exhibition greenhouses, so a wide range of climates are represented. Outdoor gardens include the beautiful Japanese and Chinese gardens, as well as those devoted to alpine, aquatic, medicinal, shade, useful, and even toxic plants.
The rose displays are stunning, and especially interesting is a garden devoted to those plants grown or used by First Nations peoples. Soaring greenhouses contain a tropical rainforest, ferns, orchids, bonsai, bromeliads, and penjings (miniature Chinese trees). An interesting Insectarium and huge arboretum are on the grounds, as well as ponds supporting a variety of birds.
Address:  4101 Sherbrooke Street East, Montréal, Québec
Notre-Dame Basilica
Notre-Dame Basilica Founded in 1656, Montréal's oldest church, Notre-Dame Basilica, stands in a far grander incarnation than the original. The twin towers of the neo-Gothic façade face Place d'Armes. The intricate and resplendent interior was designed by Victor Bourgeau.
Highlights are the magnificent carved pulpit by sculptor Louis-Philippe Hébert (1850-1917), the 7,000-pipe organ by the Casavant Frères firm, and the stained-glass windows portraying scenes from the founding of Montreal. The admission charge to the basilica includes a 20-minute tour, or you can take a one-hour tour that gives more historical information and access to private areas, including the second balcony and crypt.
Address:  110 Rue Notre-Dame Ouest, Montréal, Québec
Oratoire Saint-Joseph (St. Joseph's Oratory)
Oratoire Saint-Joseph (St. Joseph's Oratory) The Oratoire Saint-Joseph, near the western exit from Mount Royal Park, is dedicated to Canada's patron saint. It is a mecca for pilgrims, with its huge Renaissance-style domed basilica dating to 1924.
Brother André of the Congrégation de Sainte-Croix had already built a small chapel here in 1904, where he performed miraculous acts of healing for which he was canonized in 1982. His tomb is in one part of the sanctuary in the original chapel.
Votive gifts are displayed in a second chapel. A cloister behind the church leads up to Mont-Royal. There is a good northwest view from the observatory over Montréal and Lac Saint-Louis.
Address:  3800 Queen Mary, Montréal, Québec
Parc Jean Drapeau
Biosphere in Parc Jean Drapeau Île Sainte-Hélène (named after the wife of Samuel de Champlain) and the artificial island of Notre-Dame were the site of Expo '67. They are now known as Parc Jean Drapeau and have many family-minded attractions.
A remnant of the 1967 world fair, the Biosphere is now a museum dedicated to ecological issues. The building is designed in the shape of a sphere and is the largest such structure in the world. Other tourist attractions on the islands include the rides and games of La Ronde Amusement Park, the historic 1820 British arsenal at the Stewart Museum, Bassin Olympique (where the Olympic rowing events were held), and race course Circuit Gilles Villeneuve.
Montreal Biodome
River otter at the Montreal BiodomeVisited by over one million people a year, the Montreal Biodome is a must-see attraction when visiting — especially if you have children. This massive complex is home to four different indoor ecosystems: the Tropical Rainforest, the Laurentian Maple Forest, the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and the Sub-Antarctic Islands.
As you wander through each ecosystem, you'll be fully immersed in the features of that environment. Lush greenery, birds, and monkeys surround you in the Tropical Rainforest. In the Gulf of St. Lawrence environment, you'll find cool temperatures, fish, otters, and a simulated ocean.
When you wander through the Laurentian Maple Forest, be sure to look for the elusive porcupine. Most likely he or she will be snoozing high up in a tree. In the Sub-Antarctic ecosystem, the penguins steal the show!
The Biodome is located on the former Olympic grounds and is easily accessed by car or via the metro at Cadillac Station.
Musée des Beaux Arts (Fine Arts Museum)
Musée des Beaux Arts (Fine Arts Museum) | eskystudio / Shutterstock.comThe Musee des Beaux Arts is the oldest museum in Canada and houses vast collections of painting, sculpture, and new media. Its outstanding collections of World Cultures and Mediterranean Archaeology total nearly 10,000 objects, and there are excellent collections of African, Asian, and Islamic art, as well as art from North and South America.
The more than 1,400 paintings, sculptures, drawings, and prints include masterpieces by Pieter Bruegel the Younger, Canaletto, El Greco, Gainsborough, Goya, Mantegna, Poussin, Rembrandt, Tiepolo, and Veronese, and are particularly strong in artworks of the Dutch Golden Age.
The collections continue, from the Realists and Impressionists to modern art, containing works by Cézanne, Dali, Miró, Monet, Derain, Kandinsky, Matisse, Picasso, Rodin, Otto Dix, and other influential artists. Not far from the museum is the extensive campus of McGill University.
Address:  1380 Rue Sherbrooke O, Montréal, Québec
Pointe-à-Callière
Pointe-à-Callière | Kiev.Victor / Shutterstock.comAt one corner of Place Royale in Vieux-Montréal is the Pointe-à-Callière, now marked by a striking modern building housing a museum of archaeology and history. Place Royale was the center of life in Montréal's early and colonial days, where the market and parade ground were located until later government buildings displaced them. But underneath today's Montréal,  remnants of these early streets and foundations still remain, and you can explore these on a visit to the museum.
The route through the city's history begins underground, where you can walk among the original stone-paved streets, drainage channels, and ground floors of 17th-century buildings. The story unfolds in layers of history told through artifacts, maps, and exhibits as you climb through the museum. Special exhibitions cover a wide range of history and archaeology worldwide.
Address:  350 Place Royale, Montréal, Québec
Place des Arts
Place des Arts | Kit Leong / Shutterstock.comThe Place des Arts is an entire complex dedicated to visual and performing arts, the largest of its kind in all of Canada. Three great cultural organizations make their home here: the Montreal Symphony Orchestra, Les Grands Ballets Canadiens, and the Opéra de Montréal, and its various stages and rehearsal halls provide venues for all kinds of theater, music, dance, films, and events.
These sit around a large esplanade decorated with works of art, fountains, and water cascades, a popular venue for events. The most important of these is the annual summer Festival International de Jazz de Montréal held in late June and early July, attracting visitors from all over the world and bringing in some of the biggest names in jazz.
The Musée d'art contemporain de Montréal, a contemporary art museum, is particularly worth a visit, especially as young French-Canadian artists are accorded special prominence.
Address:  185 Rue St. Catherine Ouest, Montréal, Québec
Shop at Atwater and Jean-Talon Markets
Fresh vegetables for sale at Atwater MarketSimilar establishments with many of the same vendors, the Atwater Market and Jean-Talon Market are Montréal's busiest public markets and well worth visiting for their atmosphere and local food specialties and products.
Located in warehouse-style buildings, the markets feature vendors selling fruits and vegetables, flowers, meats, fish, cheese, baked goods, and specialty foods. You'll find maple syrup and candies, dried wild blueberries, home-style fruit jams and preserves, and the region's fine cheeses, as well as restaurants and cafés selling luscious pastries. The markets are a favorite stop for locals on Saturday mornings for a boule of coffee and a flaky croissant.
St. Mary Queen of the World
St. Mary Queen of the World The Catholic Mary Queen of the World Cathedral, east of Place du Canada, was built in 1894 as a smaller version of St. Peter's in Rome. The massive statues represent the patron saints of the 13 parishes of Montreal in the 19th century and were all sculpted by Olindo Gratton between 1892 and 1898.
The most important artwork in the interior is the crucifix by Philippe Hébert, atop the marble baptismal font. A series of nine paintings, seven of which are by Georges Delfosse, retell Montréal's tumultuous history.
Address:  1085 Rue de la Cathédrale, Montréal, Québec
McCord Museum
McCord Museum | Awana JF / Shutterstock.comThe McCord Museum has an outstanding collection of exhibits on Canada's social history, especially native peoples. Its collections of costumes, clothing, accessories, quilts, and other hand-made textiles total more than 20,000 objects and include works by Montreal fashion designers.
More than a thousand pieces of furniture, silver, ceramics, glass, and items related to food and household uses, as well as toys, sports equipment, and folk art lend color and domestic detail to the picture of early Canadian life.
Artifacts and arts of the First Nations peoples include clothing and accessories, hunting and fishing equipment, weapons of war, domestic implements, ceremonial items, and art, as well as archaeological finds from early aboriginal cultures.
Address:  690 Sherbrooke Street W, Montreal, Québec
Square Saint-Louis and Rue Denis
Colorful Victorian homes Near the Sherbrooke Metro Station, Square Saint-Louis rates as one of Montréal's prettiest old squares and is set in a turn-of-the-century French-Canadian residential quarter. In the little streets around the tree-shaded square, there are still a few attractive Victorian houses. Some now house pleasant restaurants.
At the square's eastern edge and running parallel to St. Laurent, Rue St. Denis is one of the hippest shopping, arts, and dining streets in Montréal. Historic buildings have been converted into boutiques, bistros, and cafés. At one end, St. Denis starts in the student-minded Quartier Latin neighborhood (it's handy to Université du Québec à Montréal and the Grande Bibliothèque) and heads west into the trendy Plateau area with its independent designers and chef-run restaurants.
Lachine Canal National Historic Site
Lachine Canal National Historic Site Lachine, on the southeast bank of Montréal Island (in Lac St.-Louis), got its name from the first pioneers who, in the 17th century, made their way up the St. Lawrence looking for a route to China (in French, "la Chine"). The 14.4-kilometer Lachine Canal, a way of getting around the Lachine Rapids, was dug in 1825.
It is many years, however, since it was last used for shipping and nowadays, it forms part of a park and offers plenty of opportunities for charming trips along the canal banks. A bike path borders its entire length, through an open green space, and you can also cruise the canal by boat.
Chinatown
Chinatown Montréal's Chinatown is centered on Rue de la Gauchetière, with Chinese gates marking the heart of the quarter. This colorful neighborhood dates from the late 1860s, when many of the Chinese laborers, who originally came to work in the mines and build the railroad, moved into the cities in search of a better life. Today's Chinatown is filled with Asian restaurants and shops, no longer exclusively Chinese, but a place where locals and tourists go to enjoy a good meal.
Ride La Grande Rou de Montreal
Ferris wheel at the Old Port | Photo Copyright: Lana LawWhile visiting the Old Port (Vieux Port) area, it's hard to miss the towering Ferris wheel known as La Grande Rou de Montreal. Standing an impressive 60 meters high, the giant wheel has 42 climate-controlled (heat in winter, A/C in summer), and eight-passenger gondolas.
The views from the top over Old Montreal and the rest of the city, including the Jacque Cartier Bridge, the Saint Lawrence Seaway, and the old Expo site, are breathtaking. On a clear day, you'll be able to see nearly 30 kilometers in most directions.
If you want to step it up a notch on the luxury scale, consider booking the VIP gondola. This unit has four large chairs outfitted in the finest Italian leather and adds the thrill of a glass floor.
Montreal Science Centre
Montreal Science Centre | Photo Copyright: Vieux Port de Montréal, Old Port of MontrealConveniently located in the center of the action in the Old Port (Vieux Port) area is the Montreal Science Centre. Perfect for a rainy or cool day in the summer or an escape from the snow and cold in the winter, this interactive and innovative place is a perfect family outing in Montreal.
A couple of the highlights inside are the Fabrik exhibit, where children can build their very own creative items in an assembly line style of production using the assorted items available, and the Clic! exhibit, where you create almost anything imaginable using odd-shaped building blocks that snap together in unusual ways.
Map of Attractions & Things to Do in Montreal
Montreal Map - Attractions (Historical)
Follow us on Instagram
More on Canada
Canada Travel Guide
Tourist Attractions in Canada
MORE DESTINATIONS
Beaches in Montreal
Parks in Montreal
Romantic Getaways from Montreal
Attractions & Things to Do in Old Montréal
Attractions & Things to Do in Burlington, VT
Attractions & Places to Visit in Vermont
Places for Cross-Country Skiing in Vermont, 2023/24
Romantic Getaways in Vermont
Ski Resorts in Vermont, 2024/25
Small Towns in Vermont
Hiking Trails in Vermont
Vermont in Pictures: Beautiful Places to Photograph
Things to Do in Vermont in Winter
Lakes in Vermont
Places to Travel in October
Ski Resorts on the East Coast, 2024/25
BE INSPIRED
Places to Visit in the United States
Tourist Attractions in the World
Tropical Vacations
Most Beautiful Islands in the World
FOLLOW USWe're sharing tips, tools, advice, and new inspiring locations for you to check out on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
Destinations popular right now
Tourist Attractions in Canada
About
Contact
Sitemap
Legal & Privacy
Magazine
© Copyright 2025 PlanetWare Inc. All rights reserved.Unauthorized duplication in part or whole without prior written consent prohibited by international laws.