Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod | Brands of the World™ | Download vector logos and logotypes
Brands of the World™
an All Creative World site
Vector Library
Critique
Upload Vector Logo
My Account
Search
Search in
Vector Logo Library
Stock Images
Brands of the World is the largest free library of downloadable vector logos, and a logo critique community. Search and download vector logos in AI, EPS, PDF, SVG, and CDR formats. If you have a logo that is not yet present in the library, we urge you to upload it. Thank you for your participation.
Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod
Sports Russia
KHL (Kontinental Hockey League) professional hockey club
Download the vector logo of the Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod brand designed by Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod in
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) format. The current status of the logo is active, which means the logo is currently in use.
Website:
http://www.hctorpedo.ru
Designer:
Torpedo Nizhny Novgorod
Contributor:
Luke Groundrunner
Vector format:
svg
Status:
Active Report as obsolete
Vector Quality:
No ratings
Updated on:
Fri, 03/01/2013 - 19:37
Tweet
Downloading this artwork you agree to the following:
The above logo design and the artwork you are about to
download is the intellectual property of the copyright and/or
trademark holder and is offered to you as a convenience for lawful
use with proper permission from the copyright and/or trademark
holder only. You hereby agree that you agree to the Terms of Use
and that the artwork you download will be used for non-commercial
use without infringing on the rights of the copyright and/or
trademark holder and in compliance with the DMCA act of 1998.
Before you use or reproduce this artwork in any manner, you
agree to obtain the express permission of the copyright and/or
trademark holder. Failure to obtain such permission is a violation
of international copyright and trademark laws subject to specific
financial and criminal penalties.
I Agree
Related vector logos
FK Lokomotiv Nizhny Novgorod (early 2000's logo)
FC Volga-Olimpiyets Nizhny Novgorod
FK Nizhny Novgorod
Torpedo Saint Petersbourg
See more
Partnered with Clios.com | Ads of the World
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy
© 2021 Clio Awards LLC.