Metal Building Kits Factory Direct Steel Factory Mfg Pre-Engineered
Engineered Steel Building Kits
HomeProducts
Pictures
Pricing
3D Design Tool
Request Price Quote!
Steel Factory Mfg Pre-Fabricated Steel Building Kits
Steel Factory Mfg metal building kits are made to meet or exceed your local structural code. Shipped factory direct to maximize savings. Made in the USA using American steel and labor. From small residential workshops, to large scale manufacturing and warehouse facilities, our metal building designs can accommodate any pre-fab storage need. Call today to speak to one of our highly trained factory reps. We provide no-pressure, no-obligation quotes. Custom designs or off-the-shelf pre-engineered models available.
Engineered for Strength
Arch (Quonset) Buildings
Arch building, sometimes referred to as quonset huts, are a cost effective solutions to your storage needs. The arch has been one of the strongest design known to man since the Roman times. Our buildings capitalize on this strength providing clearspan building kits that are inexpensive to put up, but can stand up to earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, or anything else mother nature can throw at them. Steel arch buildings are engineered to be super strong, yet a cost effective solution for the DIY do-it-yourself building construction.
Read More
>
Steel Frame Buildings
Industrial I-beam frame metal buildings offer a more traditional look and function than our arch buildings. Steel Factory Mfg's rigid frame metal structures are a standard in the building construction industry. Unsurpassed strength and extremely flexible design allow these steel building kits to be fully customized to meet any layout and configuration. From small backyard garages, warehouses, large industrial complexes or covered riding arenas, we can design and manufacture any size building you request.
Read More >
Hybrid/Custom
Today more and more customers are looking for alternative building and construction options. With the high costs of traditional building materials, our prefabricated steel buildings are a smart solution for an alternative custom building. Get more value for your dollar! Our customers have used our steel buildings for custom residential homes, cabins, retail facilities, etc. The options are endless! Contact us to discuss your project ideas.
Request Info >
Any Size, Any Configuration
Choose from pre-engineered sizes, or request a specific size and layout.
DESIGN
Our steel building kits can be tailored for any commercial, agricultural or residential application. We custom design, engineer and manufacture complete packages to meet or exceed all local structural building codes. From backyard workshops, to multi level warehouses, we can engineer and certify almost any size and configuration. Give us a call, let us know what you need, and we can tailor one of our steel building models to meet your request.
MANUFACTURE
Steel Factory Mfg buildings are manufactured exclusively in the United States and our state of the art factory utilizes cutting edge technologies in order to provide a superior product. Our low-cost, easy to assemble, multi-use pre-manufactured building kits are made from only the finest quality US made steel. Precision manufacturing ensures a fast easy assembly. All of our buildings are proudly
Made In America!
SERVICE
Excellence in manufacturing and 100% customer care are always a top priority at Steel Factory Mfg. We maintain an A+ rating with the BBB as well as accredited status. From expert guidance in the design phase, to builder support during assembly, we strive to provide the highest level of service throught the entire customer experience.
Highest Standards for Engineering and Manufacturing
Our skilled design professionals, factory employees, and distributors have become obsessed with providing only the highest quality, most durable products at the lowest prices in the industry.
State of the art engineering and design allows the factory to manufacture clearspan metal buildings up to 200 feet wide and in unlimited lengths. There is almost no restriction on possible building size.
Steel Factory Mfg - Made In America
Our steel building products are produced from locally sourced American steel and manufactured by skilled craftsmen in Pennsylvania. Excellence in manufacturing and 100% customer care are always a top priority at Steel Factory Mfg. Thanks for choosing Steel Factory Mfg and Keep Americans Working!
A+ Better Business Bureau Rating
We are a Better Business Bureau Accredited Business and honor our commitment to uphold our accreditation standards and our commitment to ethical business practices!
Gallery
Information - Price Request - Contact Form
For immediate assistance, call 866.206.6580.All information is kept strictly confidential and will never be used or shared with anyone. Submitted information is used solely for pricing purposes.
Please include as much information as possible about your project so we can better assist you.
We specialize in designing buildings to meet all local structural code requirements.
In order to do so, please be certain to provide us the building site zip code and phone number in case we require clarification.
Success! Thanks for filling out the form! Your message has been sent!
Oops...! some problem!
Send Email Form
Corporate Address
7491 N. Federal Hwy #C5-315
Boca Raton, FL 33487
Email: Sales@SteelFactory.com Phone: 866.206.6580Fax: 412.455.6112
BBB Accredited Business