Team ICO Collection "around £25" | Eurogamer.net
Skip to main content
2025 Release Schedule
AC Shadows Tips
AC Shadows Best Weapons
AC Shadows Romance
Supporters only
Deals
Buy eShop codes
Go
Support us
Sign in / Create account
Latest
PC
PlayStation
Xbox
Nintendo
Digital Foundry
News
Reviews
Videos
Features
Guides
If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission.  Read our editorial policy.
Home
News
Team ICO Collection "around £25"
Out March or April, sources tell us.
Image credit:          Eurogamer
News
by Wesley Yin-Poole
Former Editor-in-Chief
Updated on Sept. 13, 2010
56 comments
Follow ICO
The heavily rumoured ICO / Shadow of the Colossus high definition PlayStation 3 collection will be released in March or April next year and cost "around £24.99", industry sources have told Eurogamer.
ICO / Shadow of the Colossus, which popped up on the website of US retailer Walmart over the weekend, will be available to pre-order on UK retailer websites in the next few days, Eurogamer's been told.
Walmart.com has the game down for a 1st April 2011 release, which we understand may be placeholder, and priced $39.82.
Sony's plan with the release is to ape the God of War Collection, a re-mastered port of God of War and God of War II on a single Blu-ray.
Team ICO Collection, which includes high definition ports of PlayStation 2 classics ICO and Shadow of the Colossus, should be priced similarly, according to our sources.
Sony's set to go big at the Tokyo Game Show this week, where we expect to hear more.
Sony told us: "We don't comment on rumour or speculation."
In July Sony Worldwide Studios boss Shuhei Yoshida said the console manufacturer is "keen to look into" converting ICO and Shadow of the Colossus to HD for PlayStation 3.
"As soon as we released God of War Collection, a lot of people were giving us suggestions, and ICO and Shadow of the Colossus, these are at the top of the list," he said.
"We are very aware, and we want to see and play in HD in the better frame-rate as well."
In June Digital Foundry took a look at ICO running in high definition via an emulator. Check out the results below.
Read this next
Sony has just dropped another batch of brilliant game soundtracks onto Spotify
PS2 classic Ico turns 20 years old
Over 700 PS2 prototypes and demos released by game preservation group
Wesley Yin-Poole: Wesley is the former Editor-in-Chief, and worked at Eurogamer from 2010 to 2023. He likes news, interviews, and more news. He also likes Street Fighter more than anyone could get him to shut up about it.
View comments (56)
In this article
ICO
PS2
Follow
Shadow of the Colossus
PS4,
PS2
Follow
Related topics
PS3
Eurogamer is better when you sign in
Join our community of gamers and get access to personalised reading recommendations and much more!
Sign in with Google
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Twitter
Sign in with Reddit
Sign in with email
Latest News
CD Projekt shares Witcher and Cyberpunk project updates, announces partnership with mobile studio Scopely
Game publishers talk challenges of GTA 6 launch in new report: "We don't want to be anywhere near that"
Sunderfolk release date and more announced at Dreamhaven showcase hosted by The Game Awards
Paradox's troubled Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 2 gets another delay
Here's who Catherine O'Hara will play in The Last of Us, marking a significant change from the games
Monster Hunter Wilds' first major content update detailed ahead of next week's release
Fortnite adding The Walking Dead assets, including Negan's baseball bat, so you can make your own skull-cracking mini-games
Latest Guides
All shrine locations in Assassin's Creed Shadows
Assassin's Creed Shadows Sumiyoshi Shrine pray locations
Assassin's Creed Shadows Ember location
Assassin's Creed Shadows romance, including Naoe and Yasuke romance options
Assassin's Creed Shadows Nishinomaru Garden location
All kakurega locations in Assassin's Creed Shadows
Honkai Star Rail 3.2 livestream date and time, 3.2 Banner leaks
Top Discussions
Assassin's Creed Shadows team responds as game launches to Very Positive Steam rating
93
Nintendo reportedly has three-phase launch plan for Switch 2 games
58
Japanese shrine aided by Ghost of Tsushima fans announces tourist ban
55
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 won't have a mini map to preserve its sense of discovery, says producer
50
"It's OK to make a small game," says Astro Bot director on its AA-level success
49
Indiana Jones and the Great Circle PS5 release date confirmed
46
Shadow of Mordor's Nemesis system was actually created to reduce second-hand sales
33
Eurogamer.net is owned by Gamer Network Limited, an IGN Entertainment company and subsidiary of Ziff Davis.
© 2025 Gamer Network Limited, 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. Company number 03882481.
All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission.
Helpful Links
About Us
Advertise with us
Archive
Authors
Contact Us
Corporate Site
Interactive Maps
Manage push notifications
Newsletters
RSS Feeds
Policies
Accessibility Policy
AdChoices
Code of Conduct
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Review Policy
Terms & Conditions
Gamer Network
Dicebreaker
Digital Foundry
GamesIndustry.biz
Nintendo Life
Pure Xbox
Push Square
Rock Paper Shotgun
Time Extension
VG247
Across Europe
Eurogamer.de
Eurogamer.es
Eurogamer.pl
Eurogamer.pt