Prime Inc. | Freight Transport & Logistics Trucking Company
Skip to content
Driver Application
Work In House
Apply Now
Call
Search
Menu
HOMEWHY PRIMETRANSPORTATION SOLUTIONSDRIVE FOR PRIMEMOBILE APPWORK IN HOUSECARRIER SOLUTIONSSUCCESS LEASINGEQUIPMENT SALES
Driven by the Best
Driver Application
Call A Recruiter
Work In House
Artboard 17
Founded in 1970
From just a single truck to one of America’s largest freight trucking operations & transport
Sustainable
Prime is proud to go green and protect the environment
Prime values
Serving our customers while treating our associates well
Why Choose Prime?
Your Trucking Partner
Since our founding in 1970, Prime has been an innovative regional and Over the Road (OTR) trucking company, paving the way for the rest of the trucking industry. Explore our history, equipment, facilities and one-of-a-kind company culture.
Explore Prime
Transportation & logistics services
deliver farther
Ship your goods domestic with Prime, one of North America’s largest and most successful refrigerated, flatbed, tanker and intermodal freight carriers. Whether your truckload is time-critical, delicate, temperature-sensitive, liquid or solid perishable goods or durable construction materials, we have a transportation solution for you.
Explore More
Drive for Prime
Start Your Career
Become a part of the fleet that keeps America rolling. We’re proud to say that Prime is one of the best places for truck drivers to work in the country. When you become a driver for Prime, you can earn a living while seeing the beauty of the country from right outside your window. Whether you’re a new driver who needs CDL training or a more experienced driver we encourage you to become a part of the Prime family.
Get Started
9,000+
Truck Drivers Nationwide
24/7/365
Live support available around the clock.
top pay
We offer industry leading pay
Prime Mobile App
A time saving tool to help keep drivers connected and informed.
1,800+
Non-Drivers. It takes a lot of people to keep us moving
Join prime
Now hiring nationwide. Join the Prime family
Performance Improvement
Benefits
Incentive pay. Pay for performance
Work in House
Advance your career
Behind each Prime driver is a fleet of in-house associates ensuring the safety, success and reliability of our operations. Learn more about in-house job opportunities and the associates that keep Prime moving.
Discover Prime Careers
prime brokerage
your truck, your trailer
Increase your earnings while spending less on overhead when you book loads through Prime’s vast freight network. Get pre-qualified today!
Explore prime brokerage
prime power fleet
your truck, prime's trailer
Run more profitable loads with less equipment to buy. Power Fleet leverages your own authority and responsiveness along with Prime’s large company capacity and freight network.
Explore power fleet
success leasing
Lease the best
Get on the road in the latest model truck with the lowest operating costs. We’ll get you going and set you up for success in your very own truck.
Explore success leasing
pedigree
Own the best
Pedigree Truck & Trailer Sales is your source for used semi-trucks that have been owned and maintained by Prime. Choose from trucks and trailers of every color and size you could imagine, each expertly fleet-maintained since its first day on the road. Sell a truck, expand your fleet or start on the road with a truck that’s all your own.
Discover pedigree
More questions? reach out
Contact us
Need more information?
Why Prime
Prime News
Shipping or hauling freight?
TRANSPORTATION SOLUTIONS
CARRIER SOLUTIONS
Looking for a career?
DRIVE FOR PRIME
WORK IN HOUSE
Buying or leasing equipment?
PEDIGREE
SUCCESS LEASING
© 2025 Prime Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Created by: Campaignium
Instagram
Youtube
Facebook-f
2740 North Mayfair, Springfield, MO 65803
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptReject Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Non-necessary
Non-necessary
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
SAVE & ACCEPT
driver Recruiting
888-667-8076
driver Recruiting
1-877-774-6356
GENERAL SWITCHBOARD
1-800-321-4552
wORK iN hOUSE/hr
417-799-8883
LOGISTICS/Brokerage
1-800-321-1354
truck/trailer  Sales
1-800-574-3011
FLATBED Division SALES
1-800-491-1273
refrigerated division sales
1-800-848-4560
Tanker Division Sales
1-800-876-8710
INTERMODAL division Sales
1-888-745-1146
Success Leasing
1-800-491-1240
Safety dept
1-800-491-1253
Company Store
1-417-521-3814
Why Prime
Company Culture
Company Programs
Leadership Team
Equipment
Facilities
Fleet Maintenance
Prime News
Transportation Solutions
Refrigerated Division
Flatbed Division
Tanker Division
Intermodal Division
Load Tracing
Awards
Documentation
Drive For Prime
Qualifications & Expectations
Pay & Benefits
Driver Training Program
CDL Holders
Driver Awards
Salt Lake City
Pittston, PA
Springfield, MO
Work In House
Jobs At Prime
Amenities
Benefits
Company Culture
Salt Lake City
Carrier Solutions
View Available Loads​
Brokerage
Prime Power Fleet
Success Leasing
Equipment
Lease & Lease Purchase
Benefits of Leasing
How to Get Started
Pedigree
Pedigree Benefits
Financing Information
Equipment Inventory
Quick Links
Omnitracs Logs
My Prime
Company Store
Submit Pics from the Road
Driver Verification