Collapse Of Antarctic Ice Sheet Would Likely Put Washington, D.C. Largely Underwater | ScienceDaily
Skip to main content
Your source for the latest research news
Follow:
Facebook
X/Twitter
Subscribe:
RSS Feeds
Newsletter
New! Sign up for our free email newsletter.
Science News
from research organizations
Collapse Of Antarctic Ice Sheet Would Likely Put Washington, D.C. Largely Underwater
Date:
February 6, 2009
Source:
University of Toronto
Summary:
Geophysicists have shown that should the West Antarctic Ice Sheet collapse and melt in a warming world -- as many scientists are concerned it will -- it is the coastlines of North America and of nations in the southern Indian Ocean that will face the greatest threats from rising sea levels.
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIN
Email
FULL STORY
University of Toronto and Oregon State University geophysicists have shown that should the West Antarctic Ice Sheet collapse and melt in a warming world – as many scientists are concerned it will – it is the coastlines of North America and of nations in the southern Indian Ocean that will face the greatest threats from rising sea levels.
The catastrophic increase in sea level, already projected to average between 16 and 17 feet around the world, would be almost 21 feet in such places as Washington, D.C., scientists say, putting it largely underwater. Many coastal areas would be devastated. Much of Southern Florida would disappear, according to researchers at Oregon State University.
“There is widespread concern that the West Antarctic Ice Sheet may be prone to collapse, resulting in a rise in global sea levels,” says geophysicist Jerry X. Mitrovica, who, along with physics graduate student Natalya Gomez and Oregon State University geoscientist Peter Clark, are the authors of a new study to be published in the February 6 issue of the journal Science.  “We’ve been able to calculate that not only will the rise in sea levels at most coastal sites be significantly higher than previously expected, but that the sea-level change will be highly variable around the globe,” adds Gomez.
“Scientists are particularly worried about the ice sheet because it is largely marine-based, which means that the bedrock underneath most of the ice sits under sea level,” says Mitrovica, director of the Earth System Evolution Program at the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research.  “The West Antarctic is fringed by ice shelves which act to stabilize the ice sheet – these shelves are sensitive to global warming, and if they break up, the ice sheet will have a lot less impediment to collapse.”  This concern was reinforced further in a recent study led by Eric Steig of the University of Washington that showed that the entire region is indeed warming.
“The typical estimate of the sea-level change is five metres, a value arrived at by taking the total volume of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, converting it to water and spreading it evenly across the oceans,  says Mitrovica.  “However, this estimate is far too simplified because it ignores three significant effects: when an ice sheet melts, its gravitational pull on the ocean is reduced and water moves away from it.  The net effect is that the sea level actually falls within 2,000 km of a melting ice sheet, and rises progressively further away from it.  If the West Antarctic Ice Sheet collapses, sea level will fall close to the Antarctic and will rise much more than the expected estimate in the northern hemisphere because of this gravitational effect; the depression in the Antarctic bedrock that currently sits under the weight of the ice sheet will become filled with water if the ice sheet collapses.  However, the size of this hole will shrink as the region rebounds after the ice disappears, pushing some of the water out into the ocean, and this effect will further contribute to the sea-level rise; the melting of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet will actually cause the Earth’s rotation axis to shift rather dramatically – approximately 500 metres from its present position if the entire ice sheet melts.  This shift will move water from the southern Atlantic and Pacific oceans northward toward North America and into the southern Indian Ocean.“The net effect of all of these processes is that if the West Antarctic Ice Sheet collapses, the rise in sea levels around many coastal regions will be as much as 25 per cent more than expected, for a total of between six and seven metres if the whole ice sheet melts,” says Mitrovica.  “That’s a lot of additional water, particularly around such highly populated areas as Washington, D.C., New York City, and the California coastline.”
Digital animation of what various sea-level rise scenarios might look like for up to six metres is at http://www.cresis.ku.edu/research/data/sea_level_rise.
“There is still some important debate as to how much ice would actually disappear if the West Antarctic Ice sheet collapses – some fraction of the ice sheet may remain quite stable,” he says.  “But, whatever happens, our work shows that the sea-level rise that would occur at many populated coastal sites would be much larger than one would estimate by simply distributing the meltwater evenly.  Any careful assessment of the sea-level hazard associated with the loss of major ice reservoirs must, of course, account for the sea-level fingerprint of other sources of meltwater, namely Greenland, the East Antarctic and mountain glaciers.  The most important lesson is that scientists and policy makers should focus on projections that avoid simplistic assumptions.”
The research was funded with support from the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the US National Sciences Foundation.
RELATED TOPICS
Earth & Climate
Global Warming
Snow and Avalanches
Climate
Oceanography
Ice Ages
Geography
Floods
Environmental Awareness
RELATED TERMS
Ice sheet
Greenland ice sheet
Antarctic ice sheet
Gulf Stream
Larsen Ice Shelf
Ice shelf
Ocean
Bering Strait
Story Source:
Materials provided by University of Toronto. Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
Journal Reference:
The Sea Level Fingerprint of West Antarctic Collapse. Science, Feb 6, 2009
Cite This Page:
MLA
APA
Chicago
University of Toronto. "Collapse Of Antarctic Ice Sheet Would Likely Put Washington, D.C. Largely Underwater." ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 6 February 2009. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/02/090205142132.htm>.
University of Toronto. (2009, February 6). Collapse Of Antarctic Ice Sheet Would Likely Put Washington, D.C. Largely Underwater. ScienceDaily. Retrieved March 25, 2025 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/02/090205142132.htm
University of Toronto. "Collapse Of Antarctic Ice Sheet Would Likely Put Washington, D.C. Largely Underwater." ScienceDaily. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/02/090205142132.htm (accessed March 25, 2025).
Explore More
from ScienceDaily
RELATED STORIES
ESA and NASA Satellites Deliver First Joint Picture of Greenland Ice Sheet Melting
Dec. 20, 2024 — Scientists have delivered the first measurements of Greenland Ice Sheet thickness change using data from ESA and NASA ice satellite missions. With global warming causing the Greenland Ice Sheet to ...  Deep Dive on Sea Level Rise: New Modelling Gives Better Predictions on Antarctic Ice Sheet Melt
Nov. 17, 2023 — Using historical records from around Australia, an international team of researchers have put forward the most accurate prediction to date of past Antarctic ice sheet melt, providing a more realistic ...  Clock Is Ticking to Save East Antarctica from Climate Change
Aug. 10, 2022 — The worst effects of global warming on the world's largest ice sheet could be avoided if nations around the world succeed in meeting climate targets outlined in the Paris Agreement. That's the call ...  Ocean Eddies Could Explain Antarctic Sea-Ice Paradox
Feb. 2, 2022 — Despite global warming and the sea-ice loss in the Arctic, the Antarctic sea-ice extent has remained largely unchanged since 1979. However, existing climate model-based simulations indicate ...
Print
Email
Share
Breaking
this hour
Math Shows Logic in How People Walk in Crowds
Chimps Act as 'Engineers' When Making Tools
Healthy Eating in Midlife: Healthy Aging
Non-Surgical Contraceptive Implant
New Path to Clean Drinking Water
Oxygen for Mars
Engineered Starfish Cells Shape-Shift in Light
Secrets of Locust Swarm Movement
Fusing Wireless Technologies and AI
Galapagos Birds Exhibit 'Road Rage' Due to Noise
Trending Topics
this week
PLANTS & ANIMALS
Biology
Biotechnology
Cell Biology
EARTH & CLIMATE
Global Warming
Climate
Weather
FOSSILS & RUINS
Origin of Life
Early Humans
Cultures
Strange & Offbeat
PLANTS & ANIMALS
Chimpanzees Act as 'Engineers', Choosing Materials to Make Tools Based on Structural and Mechanical Properties
Scientists Engineer Starfish Cells to Shape-Shift in Response to Light
New Research Reveals Secrets About Locust Swarm Movement
EARTH & CLIMATE
Galapagos Birds Exhibit 'Road Rage' Due to Noise
Tiny Musky Rat-Kangaroos Hold the Key to Explain Why 'Roos Hop
Marine Animals Help Solve Ocean Issues
FOSSILS & RUINS
From Dinosaurs to Birds: The Origins of Feather Formation
Iguanas Floated One-Fifth of the Way Around the World to Colonize Fiji
'Microlightning' in Water Droplets May Have Sparked Life on Earth
Toggle navigation
Menu
SD
SD
Home Page
Top Science News
Latest News
Home
Home Page
Top Science News
Latest News
Health
View all the latest top news in the health sciences, or browse the topics below:
Health & Medicine
Allergy
Cancer
Cold and Flu
Diabetes
Heart Disease
... more topics
Mind & Brain
ADD and ADHD
Alzheimer's
Headaches
Intelligence
Psychology
... more topics
Living Well
Parenting
Child Development
Stress
Nutrition
Fitness
... more topics
Tech
View all the latest top news in the physical sciences & technology, or browse the topics below:
Matter & Energy
Chemistry
Fossil Fuels
Nanotechnology
Physics
Solar Energy
... more topics
Space & Time
Black Holes
Dark Matter
Extrasolar Planets
Solar System
Space Telescopes
... more topics
Computers & Math
Artificial Intelligence
Mathematics
Quantum Computers
Robotics
Virtual Reality
... more topics
Enviro
View all the latest top news in the environmental sciences, or browse the topics below:
Plants & Animals
Agriculture and Food
Biology
Biotechnology
Extinction
Microbes and More
... more topics
Earth & Climate
Climate
Earthquakes
Geology
Global Warming
Pollution
... more topics
Fossils & Ruins
Anthropology
Archaeology
Dinosaurs
Evolution
Paleontology
... more topics
Society
View all the latest top news in the social sciences & education, or browse the topics below:
Science & Society
Arts & Culture
Economics
Privacy Issues
Public Health
Sports
... more topics
Business & Industry
Computers & Internet
Energy & Resources
Engineering
Medical Technology
Transportation
... more topics
Education & Learning
Creativity
Educational Psychology
Infant & Preschool
Learning Disorders
STEM Education
... more topics
Quirky
Top News
Human Quirks
Odd Creatures
Bizarre Things
Weird World
Keyword:Search
Free Subscriptions
Stay informed with ScienceDaily's free email newsletter, updated daily and weekly. Or view our many newsfeeds in your RSS reader:
Email Newsletter
RSS Feeds
Follow Us
Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks:
Facebook
X / Twitter
Have Feedback?
Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments. Have any problems using the site? Questions?
Leave Feedback
Contact Us
About This Site   |   Staff   |   Contribute   |   Advertise   |   Privacy Policy   |  Editorial Policy  |   Terms of Use
Copyright 1995-2024 ScienceDaily or by other parties, where indicated. All rights controlled by their respective owners. Content on this website is for information only. It is not intended to provide medical or other professional advice. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily, contributors or partners. Financial support for ScienceDaily comes from advertisements and referral programs.