BAND | Dead Brain Cells
top of pageDEAD BRAIN CELLSLATEST NEWS
LATEST NEWS
LATEST NEWS
LATEST NEWS
DEAD BRAIN CELLSHOMEBIOBANDPHOTOSPHOTOS NOW & THENLIVE 1986 - 1990LIVE 2005 - 2014LIVE 2015 - NOWON TOURIN THE STUDIOSHOW POSTERSMUSICVIDEOSNEWSCONTACTSHOPMoreUse tab to navigate through the menu items.BAND MEMBERSOriginal DBC line up 1986 - 1991. Eddie Shahini, Jeff St-Louis, Gerry Ouellette & Phil Dakin.Phil DakinName: Phil Dakin
Instrument: Bass & Vocals
Place of Birth: Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
Job: Bassist, Vocalist, Lyricist, Co-composer, Co-producer
Equipment: Played a couple of Fenders basses in the early years but bought an Ibanez five-string with my first royalty check. After many years of hating my sound I realized that the bass was not a good choice for my playing style. I've settled on a Fender Precision recently and I'm liking it.
I had a few rigs (Peavey, Laney) but never fell in love with the sound coming from any of them so I usually jus tuse the previous band's bass rig. I'm now playing through my old Peavey Mark IV but I bought an Ampeg 4x12 cab and the sound is much better. When playing guitar, I have Gibson Marauder and I've never played a better guitar.
Influences: Well if I wanted to get to the essence of what music really influenced me in my writing and playing it would have to be the early albums of each of these bands: Black Sabbath, Rush, Van Halen, Kiss, Grand Funk Railroad and Cheap Trick. There are many other bands that have come and gone that I've listened to and loved at some point but I always come back to these bands on a regular basis. As for individual influences it would have to be Lemmy, Geddy, Gene and Cronos.
Where are they now?: I currently work in Visual Effects for Movies in Montreal, Canada But I've lived and worked in Toronto, Vancouver and London UK. I still enjoy jamming with friends playing either bass or guitar but singing is now something I really enjoy. I've never been married, and I have no kids (unlike some people in the band... heh heh)
Likes: Family Guy, computer games, aviation, WWII, music, science, booze, my family and some of my friends...
Dislikes: Religion, people, television, pollution, barking, religion.
Indifferences: Turnip. I could take it or leave it.
Eddie ShahiniCheck out Eddie's Design site
illustratica.comName: Eddie Shahini
Instrument: Guitar
Place of Birth: Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Job: Guitar, co-composer, vocals & backing vocals.
Influences: I would have to say the biggest influence on DBC was Slayer. Gerry and I got into them, and when we saw them live we knew what we wanted to do.
Equipment: B.C. Rich Eagle guitar, B.C. Rich Bitch (back up) Marshall head with 2 cabinets of 4 x 10" speakers. LTD Deluxe Guitar.
Bands before DBC: I was in a few bands when I was a teenager. Gerry and I played our variety show in high school, we did 3 Rolling Stones songs, we called ourselves Beggar's Banquet. That band turned into Stonehenge, again a lot of cover tunes. In the mid-80's Gerry & I got into Heavy Metal, we tried to start a band with the lead singer from Genetic Control called Final Chapter. We never found the right members, so we decided to start a joke band in the meantime to keep us busy. Dave Javex, the lead singer from Vomit and the Zits, got all of us together, we had a choice of names, The Mental Pukes,The Retarded Assholes, or Dead Brain Cells. We settled on the latter and the rest is history. We also had a fun band going at the same time  as DBC with all kinds of musicians in the Montreal scene, we were known as Killer Dump.
Where are they now? : I am presently married with two children, a girl and a boy. I still live and work in Montreal as a graphic artist. Still jamming once and a while and play the occasional show. I started a new band called Kill of Rights, we are released a CD in 2014.
Favorite Bands: Killswitch Engage, Mudvayne, Nine Inch Nails, Marilyn Manson, Korn, Mozart, Slayer, The Rolling Stones, Metallica, Led Zeppelin, Michael Penn, Pixies, The Beatles, The Sex Pistols, Pink Floyd, Soundgarden, Lamb of God, Elton John, Nirvanna, Aerosmith, Miss May I, The Who, Pearl Jam, Beethoven, Bad Brains, Bob Marley & the Wailers, Slipknot and The Bare Naked Ladies, As I Lay Dying...plus other crap.
If you need a T-shirt design, feel free to contact me or if you just want to see some of my work go to: www.illustratica.comGerry Ouellette1964-1994Name: Gerry Ouellette
Instrument: Guitar
Birth Date: August 21, 1964 - November 12, 1994
Place of birth: Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Job: Gerry played the lead guitar in DBC, He started at a very young age, he definitely had his own style.
Influences: Gerry liked a wide array of music, Everything from Reggae to Speed Metal. His main influences were Keith Richards. Later on his lead guitar influence would have to be Kerry King from Slayer.
Equipment: B.C. Rich Bitch guitar.
Amp: Marshall head with 2 cabinets of  4 x 10" speakers.
Bands before DBC: He played in a few garage bands with Eddie. Beggar's Banquet, Stonehenge. He later played with My Dog Popper & Front End Loader.
Current Whereabouts: Unfortunately Gerry passed away on November 12, 1994. He will not be forgotten.Jeff St-Louis1959- 2019Name: Jeff St-Louis, Jeff 'Best So Fuck Off'
Birth Date: December 22, 1958 - December 22, 2019
Place of Birth: Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Job: Jeff was the crazy drummer
Influences: If I remember right Jeff liked the drummer Mitch Mitchel from The Jimi Hendrix Experience. He also was inspired by John Bonham from Led Zeppelin. He always reminded me of Keith Moon
from The Who.
Equipment: Premier drum set. Double bass drums, 2 tom-toms, 2 floor toms, high-hat, ride & three crash symbols, & snare drum. He also had a gong.
Bands before DBC: Jeff played in a 70's band that almost released an album, called Chasity. He then played for Vomit & the Zits, a hardcore band. At the same time he was playing with an experimental band called Térapi.
Current Whereabouts: Jeff was a graphic artist in Montreal. He played in a couple of local bands, Timetakers & Satanic. He jammed with Eddie & Phil once and a while and played the occasional show.
Unfortunately Jeff passed away on his birthday on December 22, 2019.
"Hey baby, stop that cab!"Jason QuinnName: J. Quinn
Instrument: Guitar
Birth Date: November 23 1974
Place of Birth: Sydney, Nova Scotia, Canada
Job: Lead guitar, trying to do justice to Gerry's solos and adding my own little twist when appropriate
Equipment: LTD guitars, Marshall amps and cabs with no effects. I have owned Jackson, Ibanez and Yamaha guitars and Mesa Boogie amps but have found the sound I want with my current setup.
Influences: Venom, Mercyful Fate, Helloween, DBC, Razor and many more...
Where are they now?: Still playing guitar with my full-time band North End Metal All-StarsCheck out North End Metal All-StarsGraham FergusonName: Graham Ferguson
Instrument: Drums
Birth Date: August 17, 1985 (young!!)
Place of Birth: Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
Job: Live session drummer since 2007
Influences: Jeff St. Louis of course!! also Paul Bostaph (Testament/Forbidden/Slayer), Frost (1349/Satyricon)
Equipment: whatever shitty kit I have at the time...or something borrowed
Bands before DBC: I play guitar is HELLACAUST, drums in NAPALM RAID and TERRATOMB. I also used to play drums in SYSTEM SHIT.
Where are they now? : living in Halifax, touring with NAPALM RAID and HELLACAUST
Favorite Bands: old Metallica, old Sepultura, Watain, Exhumed, Aura Noir, Destroyer 666, Blasphemy, Black Witchery, Angelcorpse, Doom, Nifelheim, KissCheck out Napalm RaidBill ThompsonCheck out Creepy FamilyCheck out Mister MonsterName:  Bill Thompson
Place of birth:  Montreal
Early influences: I was exposed to rock and roll as a kid, my uncle had an electric guitar that was loud and really cool!  Artists like The Beatles, The Beach Boy, The Ventures, The Monkees, Roy Clark, Les Paul, Jerry Reid and Chet Atkins were all over the air waves, spreading guitar music to all the TVs and radios, The Osmond Brothers had electric guitars too!        I learned how to play guitar by myself with a book called "Improvising Rock Guitar."  This method book came with a floppy record known as a 'sound page' which had examples of the riffs covered in the lessons.                                                                                                                   In high school I started jamming with friends, we played Rolling Stones, Aerosmith, Jimi Hendrix,
Lynyrd Skynyrd, Kiss, Cheap Trick, Rick Derringer and Black Sabbath, just to name a few.  In 1978 a friend showed up with a record and told me "you better sit down for this," it was the first Van Halen album!  Eddie Van Halen was it, my mind was blown!  His playing and sound were beyond anything a human brain could imagine.
​
Equipment: • Les Paul studio which was given to me in pieces.  Some guy was drunk and smashed it on stage, it was in five chunks of wood but glued together well and sounds great!
• Homemade Jackson Dinky style guitar with a Floyd Rose tremolo.  I made it in the eighties and found it twenty years later at a pawn shop for $40
• Mesa Dual Rectifier through a Marshall 4X12 cabinet that only has two speakers in it.
• Korg Pitchblack tuner
Previous bands: • Creepy Family.  Creepy Family happened during the early eighties.  It was heavy psychotic rock.  The song "Warrior" was featured on "Moose Molten Metal," a compilation album of the Montreal metal scene.
• The Hodads.  I played guitar for The Hodads, a country/rock band during the mid eighties.  The Hodads were popular and had the interest of the Montreal music industry.  The Hodads enjoyed opening for Chris Isaak, The Tragically Hip and Timbuk 3.  They also got an hour long live feature on Music Plus.
• Mister Monster.  Mister Monster was a hard rock band that existed during the late nineties who released one album "Harder Faster Louder."  The band was featured on "Rock Stage" a Montreal heavy metal show case on cable television.   Mister Monster opened for The Stranglers and Life, Sex and Death.
• Union Made.  Union Made was a hard rock band that featured Snake from Voivod on vocals and Peter Jackson from B.A.R.F. on drums.  The two guitarists were Guillaume Ozoux and Dan Bereube.  I played the bass in this project. Union Made released a single "Save The World" with the B side "Caveman".
• Kill Of Rights  K.O.R was a metal band featuring Jac Dupuis on vocals, Eddie Shahini on guitar, Marc Prévost on drums, Kiran Mehta on bass and me on guitar.  K.O.R. released "Sign of the Crimes in 2014.
• Dead Brain Cells.   Current band
Where are they now: Snake from Union Made rejoined Voivod who are known world wide.  Eddie Shahini, Marc Prevost and Bill Thompson left Kill Of Rights to join Phil!Marc PrévostName: Marc Prévost
Instrument: Ukulele and triangle...and when I really feel like it, I play drums or guitar and sing.
Place of Birth: Unknown really, I just appeared in a Montreal pothole one day. Pretty sad.
Influences: barber shop band obviously! ... Mainly metal stuff but I really listen to all kinds of music.
Equipment: Yes I'm well equipped, God did good for me.
Previous Bands: so many it's impossible to name them all, but out of all of them I really enjoy playing with Maiden Quebec (tribute still happening) and cover band Loaded Revolvers.
Where are they now?: Some are rotting in hell, some are in witness protection...you know, same as everyone.
Favorite Bands: All depends what era of my life we are talking about. Check out Maiden QuebecLouis LevesqueName: Louis Levesque
Instrument: Drums.
Place of Birth: Montreal
Influences: Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin, Genesis, Gentle Giant, Rush, Frank Zappa, Al Di Meola, among others...
Equipment: Premier, Ludwig, Pearl, DrumCraft, Pork Pie, Paiste, Meinl, Sabian, Zildjian
Previous Bands: Unruled, Genetic Control, Rabid, Lizard, Mr. Monster, Homicide, E-Force, Borislav Mitic Trio, Shiverdown, Entropy, Conrad Simon Band, Special Ops, Marck.T
Where are they now?: Still active with Marck.T and Genetic Control as well.
Favorite Bands: Allan Holdsworth, Return to Forever, Jeff Beck, as well as many others, including the ones already mentioned in the 'Influences' list. Eric MarsanName: Eric Marsan
Instrument: Guitar
Place of Birth: Joliette, Québec, but I grew up in Villeray, Montréal.
Equipment: My main instrument is my Aria Pro II flying-V, the same I use since 1999. I also use BC Rich, Dean and Fender. Nordin custom amp, Marshall amps and cabs.
Influences: The first music that influenced me as a kid, was my dad’s vinyl collection; Deep Purple, Ritchie Blackmore’s Rainbow, Pink Floyd, KISS. Then I discovered Slayer and Cannibal Corpse and my love for extreme music began.
Where are they now?: I worked 18 years at Steve’s Music Store in Montréal, the greatest music store there is. Now I work as a flexographic press operator in a printing company since 2023. (Not very Metal but it pays the bills!)
Favorite bands: Deep Purple, Rainbow, Slayer, Cannibal Corpse, Deicide, Tankard, old Sepultura, Suffocation, Krisiun, Repulsion, Necrophagia, Morbid Angel, Unleashed, Immortal, Satyricon, Venom, Motörhead, Judas Priest and the list goes on…
Likes: Collecting sov/ horror/ slasher/ gore/ giallo movies and memorabilia, old school Death Metal, Ed Gein, Playstation, guitars, pizza, poutine, Bitburger, traveling to Europe, especially Germany, I’m fascinated with their history, World War II, the cold war and the West Berlin music scene in the 80s.
Dislikes: Religion, all of them.Check out Point Blank Rage© 2024 by DEAD BRAIN CELLS.  Proudly created with Wix.comPendulumDead Brain Cells00:00 / 03:38SirensDead Brain Cells00:00 / 04:14bottom of page