Real estate in Albia Iowa, Keosauqua - Boley Real Estate
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
Home
Search Properties
Browse by County Map
All Properties
Farms & Agricultural
Residential Properties
Commercial Properties
Hunting Properties
Property Auctions
Sold Properties
Iowa Land & Property Resources
All Resources
Seller Resources
Buyer Resources
Sign Up For New Listing Notifications & Monthly Emails
Request a Property Valuation
About Us
About Boley Real Estate
Meet The Team
Our History
Our Testimonials
Our Experience
Contact Us
Contact Info
Join Our Team
Select Page
Properties in Iowa
Our current Iowa listings are located in the yellow counties on the map. Hover to see the number of available properties, and click  to view the listings.
Price
-
County
Any
Mahaska
Monroe
Ringgold
Van Buren
Wayne
Acres
-
Bedrooms
-
Let us help you buy or sell property
You’ll notice the difference at Boley Real Estate right away. Our team spans generations of owners, brokers and agents, many born and raised right here in Iowa. We can and will make it easy for you to buy or sell property.
Give us a call today,we’d love to help you find your favorite place!
Sign Up for New Listing Updates
Building lot for sale in Keosauqua, IA
20 m/l Acres For Sale in Ringgold Co. Iowa
Triplex Investment Opportunity in Albia, IA
Large 1.6 +/- Acre Building Lot in Albia, IA
4 Bd/2 Bath Home for sale in Albia, IA!
PreviousNext
Click a title above to visit that listing
If you are looking for land for sale in Iowa we have it! If you are looking to buy or sell residential properties, hunting properties, commercial properties or farms we are the team for you.
Our Latest Listings
4 Bd/2 Bath Home for sale in Albia, IA!
20 m/l Acres For Sale in Ringgold Co. Iowa
Building lot for sale in Keosauqua, IA
Large 1.6 +/- Acre Building Lot in Albia, IA
Triplex Investment Opportunity in Albia, IA
Our Latest Listings
4 Bd/2 Bath Home for sale in Albia, IA!
20 m/l Acres For Sale in Ringgold Co. Iowa
View All Properties
The history behind our brand
It may be a new look for us, but it comes with a long history!
Let’s begin with Ralph Boley, the hardest worker you can imagine. Ralph spent most of his life pursuing his passion for farming and raising cattle. He knew the land like no other and was honest, respected and extremely knowledgeable.
The Rocking B was a branding iron that Ralph Boley had registered with the State of Iowa Secretary of Agriculture in 1967 for his cattle farm in rural Birmingham, IA.
Click to read the full story
Questions? Whether you are looking to buy or sell, give the experienced team at Boley Real Estate a call today.
Get In Touch!
Don’t see what you’re hunting for? We list new properties daily! Sign up to get an email when a new property comes available.
What is your Property Worth? Request a FREE, no-obligation valuation of your current properties from our experts.
Request a Valuation
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
Real Estate Website Design by Bold Print Design Studio
Admin Login