Broncos Ink Defensive Lineman Ty Warren - Mile High Report
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Mile High Report homepage
Horizontal - White
Mile High Report
a Denver Broncos community
Follow Mile High Report online:
Follow Mile High Report on Twitter
Follow Mile High Report on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Mile High Report main menu
Sections
By/For Fans
Betting
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Sections
News
Schedule & Scores
Rumors
Injuries
Roster
Depth Chart
By/For Fans
FanPosts
Community Guidelines
About Us
Contact Us
Betting
FanDuel NFL Odds
FanDuel Super Bowl Odds
Denver Broncos Odds
NFL Picks and Predictions
✕
Filed under:
Broncos Ink Defensive Lineman Ty Warren
By
KaptainKirk
Updated
Aug  2, 2011,  8:33pm MDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Broncos Ink Defensive Lineman Ty Warren
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
Adam Schefter just reported good news for Denver Bronco fans still dreaming for Defensive Lineman help. Here, I'll just let the man tell you himself:
Broncos land former Patriots DE Ty Warren with a 2-year, $10 million deal that includes $2.5 million guaranteed.
less than a minute ago via UberSocial for BlackBerry  Favorite  Retweet  ReplyAdam SchefterAdamSchefter
Ty Warren is a 6'5", 300 lb Defensive Lineman who previously played for the New England Patriots. He was drafted by them in the 1st round (13th overall) of the 2003 NFL Draft. Ty was a Pro Bowler (2007) and has 2 Super Bowl Rings (XXXVIII, XXXIX). At 30 years old, the 8 year veteran has Career numbers that include 92 starts in 106 games, with 372 Tackles, 20,5 Sacks, 7 pass deflections, 4 Forced Fumbles, 6 Fumbles recovered and 1 Safety.
In the past 3 seasons, Warren hasn't played a full schedule. In 2008, he played in 13 games, with 41 Tackles and 2 Sacks. 2009 saw him miss 3 more games with an ankle injury. He finished with 46 Tackles and a Sack. Last season, Ty suffered a hip injury during Training Camp and spent the season on Injured Reserve and only recording 2 Tackles. He was released by New England on July 29th. Warren played at the Left Defensive End position for the Patriots.
More From
Mile High Report
Should the Broncos draft Oregon TE Terrance Ferguson and reunite him with QB Bo Nix?
Can you guess this Broncos running back in today’s in-5 trivia game?
Even with Evan Engram signed, should the Broncos draft Michigan TE Colston Loveland in the first round?
Horse Tracks: Should a new contract for Nik Bonitto be a priority for the Broncos right now?
Future Broncos: Texas tight end Gunnar Helm
Kansas RB Devin Neal would be a steal for the Broncos on day 3 of the 2025 NFL Draft
Most Read
Should the Broncos draft Oregon TE Terrance Ferguson and reunite him with QB Bo Nix?
Could we see the Broncos draft one of Bo Nix’s favorite targets at Oregon on day two of the 2025 NFL Draft?
Even with Evan Engram signed, should the Broncos draft Michigan TE Colston Loveland in the first round?
Even with the Broncos adding Evan Engram, the Broncos should still strongly consider drafting Michigan tight end Colston Loveland.
Horse Tracks: Should a new contract for Nik Bonitto be a priority for the Broncos right now?
Edge rusher is a key position in today’s NFL - especially in the pass-heavy AFC West. So signing Nik Bonitto to a long-term deal sooner rather than later should be a no-brainer.
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook