Navy Units: Find Special Forces, EODs, Reserve Units & More
Loading, please wait
VetFriends Connecting Veterans and    Reuniting Thousands of Old Friends
VetFriends Members:
3,056,529
SIGN UP
|
LOGIN
Menu
Search Veterans
Info
Community
Events
Shop
About
My Profile
Back to Menu
Search Veterans & Military
Search Military Units
Search U.S. Military
Military Records
Veteran ID
VA Forms
Military Rank & Insignia Chart
Military Discounts
Military Pay Chart
Military Structure Chart
U.S. Military Base Map
U.S. Deployments Overseas
Veteran Owned Businesses
Our Blog
Message Board
Military Photos
Military Reunion Stories
Military Service Map
Military Cadences
Military Jokes
Military Lingo
Great Military Web Pages
Recommended Military Books
Today in Military History
Veteran Owned Businesses
Veteran Organizations
Reunions Calendar
Veterans Day Parades
Veterans Day Forum
Military Casualty Memorial
Memorial Day Parades
Memorial Day Forum
Shop the Store
Hats
Shirts
License Plates
Pins
Patches
Coins
New Arrivals
About VetFriends
Become a Member
Advertise with Us
FAQ/Policies
Interview a Veteran
Veteran ID
Contact Us
Create My Profile
Login
Navy UNITS
VetFriends Veteran ID Card
Quick Links
Navy Units
Air Force Units
Army Units
Marine Corps Units
Become a VetFriends Member
Site Map
Search Veterans & Personnel
Photos, Humor, Stories & More
Military Records & Resources
Reunions, Parades, & Events
Online Catalog
About VetFriends
My Profile
MetLife Veteran Insurance Discounts
Contact Us
Search Navy Units by Name
SEARCH
More Navy units shared by our members >>
How the U.S. Navy is Organized
The organizational structure of the Navy has changed incrementally over time. During  World War II, administrative organization had to account for
different ship types, like the Battleship Divisions, Destroyer Divisions, Cruiser Divisions, and Escort Divisions. This organization grouped ship by task
types, and each division usually included two ships. While the urgency of World War II commenced the creation of the task force system, more gradual
changes have occured since. For example, the 1970s saw the Navy using cruiser destroyer ships.
Current U.S. Navy Organizational Structure
The squadron. Although not a widely used unit within the United States Navy, a Navy squadron represents the aviation wing, which includes
carrier and land borne aircraft utilized by either the Navy or the Marine Corps. Foreign navies often have designated groups of ships of the same
type — like submarines — also called "squadrons." U.S. Navy aviation squadrons are led by commanders.
The Navy's Task Force. This represents a group of ships brought together for a particular mission. Usually, it includes several types of ships
that orbit a capital ship like an aircraft carrier, or another ship designed for combat. Additional groups closely follow the Task Force, including
logistics, anti-submarine warfare specialists, and an amphibious landing. For larger missions, Task Forces might be divided  into smaller groups for
purposes like Task Units or Task Elements.
The Strike Groups. The Carrier Strike Group and the Expeditionary Strike Group make up this part of the Navy. The Carrier Strike Group is commanded
by rear admirals and the Expeditionary Strike Group is commanded by a marine brigadier. The Strike Group can be versatile and can either be separated to
perform missions, or work together to support adjacent tasks.
The Navy's Fleet. This is one of the largest internal Navy organizations. The fleet represents regionally recognized ships that are commanded by
an admiral. Depending on the country that the Navy represents, they may have separate fleets for other regions, too. The United States Navy, for example,
is organized into five different fleets assigned to different regions: There is a fleet that caters to the Atlantic region, the Third Fleet represents the
Pacific coast, the Fifth Fleet is based near Bahrain in the Mediterranean Sea that caters to USS LaSalle, and the Seventh Fleet off the coast of Osaka,
Japan. Keep in mind that the First Fleet is colloquially used to name the U.S. Coast Guard.
Ship classes. Ship classes can be major groups like nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, missile cruisers, missile destroyers, missile frigates,
and assault ships. Nuclear-powered missile submarines and helicopter carriers can also constitute to their own ship "class." Alternatively, a ship's
class can also refer to its design. For example, many of the Navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers are also called a "Nimitz class" to commemorate
the USS Nimitz, which joined the U.S. Navy fleet in the 1970s.
Carrier Air Wing and Marine Air-Ground Task Force. The carrier-borne version of the U.S. Air Wing represents a total of 72 aircraft.
The Marine Air-Ground Task Force represents the organization's basic construct and is equipped for combined operations. Sometimes these task forces are
organized in response to a natural disaster.
The Marine Expeditionary Force. Consisting of up to 48,000 Marines, this force is the main combat formation for this branch of the military.
The task force can include tanks, artillery, an aviation wing, and strong ground support.
Loading...
SITEMAP
Search Veterans
Veteran Resources
Military Units
Military Store
Veteran Owned Businesses
VA Ratings
ABOUT US
The Company
Membership
Veteran ID Card
CUSTOMER SUPPORT
FAQ/Policies
Privacy/Opt Out Info
Contact Us
My Profile
STAY CONNECTED
© 	2025 Copyright VetFriends.com. All rights reserved.