University of Missouri-Kansas City (UMKC) Introduction and Academics - Kansas City, MO
Universities
Top Schools List
Top Schools Overall
Top-Ranked Schools Overall
Top Colleges and Universities, Four-Year or Above
Best Public State Universities
Best Private Colleges and Universities
Best Vocational, Technical and Career Colleges
Best Community Colleges
Top-Ranked Schools by NCAA Conference
Most Popular Schools by Program
Safest Schools
Safest Schools
Safest Public State Universities
Safest Private Colleges and Universities
Safest Vocational, Technical and Career Colleges
Safest Community Colleges
Top Schools by Other Attributes
Top ACT Scores
Top SAT Scores
Highest FT Faculty Salary
Highest Average Student Loan
Highest Total Enrollment
Highest Total Cost of Attendance
Top Schools by State
Top-Ranked Schools Overall (by State)
Safest Schools (by State)
Top ACT Scores (by State)
Top SAT Scores (by State)
Highest FT Faculty Salary (by State)
Highest Average Student Loan (by State)
Highest Total Enrollment (by State)
Highest Total Cost of Attendance (by State)
Careers
Financial Aid
Study Guides
Highest Total Cost of Attendance (by State)
Jobs
Health
Blog
Home
University List
Missouri
University of Missouri-Kansas City
Introduction
The University of Missouri Kansas City (UMKC) is a public university in Kansas City, Missouri. The main campus is located in the Rockhill neighborhood of Kansas City.  UMKC was first built as University of Kansas City, a dual tribute to Abraham Lincoln and Robert E. Lee. It is located close to a large battlefield of the Civil War. One of the more interesting buildings on campus in Epperson House, a Tudor-Gothic mansion with a history of ghosts. UMKC has been growing rapidly in recent years, with a current student body of over 17,000.
A Reputation for Excellence
UMKC boasts a low student to faculty ratio, with approximately 12 students to every member of the faculty. Around 95% of faculty members hold the highest degree in their field of study.  There are more endowed chairs and professorships at UMKC than any other school in the University of Missouri system.
Videos
Information Summary
Ranks 15th in Missouri and
645th overall.
See the entire top 2,000 colleges and universities list
Overall Score (about)
84.9
Total Cost On-Campus Attendance
$24,116
Admission Success rate
N/A
ACT / SAT 75%ile scores
28 / 1340
Student Ratio Students-to-Faculty
15 : 1
Retention (full-time / part-time)
73% / 35%
Enrollment Total (all students)
16,375
Academics
Schools and colleges include College of Arts and Sciences, Conservatory of Music and Dance, Henry W. Bloch School of Business and Public Administration, School of Biological Sciences, School of Computing and Engineering, School of Dentistry, School of Education, School of Law, School of Medicine, School of Nursing, School of Pharmacy, and School of Graduate Studies. Within these schools and colleges there are more than 50 majors in 125 academic areas.
Unique Academic Opportunities
The School of Medicine is known for its combined Bachelor’s/Doctorate program, which only takes six years to complete in total. UMKC is also home to the Fungal Genetics Stock Center, a research and publishing facility which offers multiple internships and work opportunities for students.
Most Popular Fields of Study
Gallery
Admissions
Incoming students are expected to have studied 4 years of English, 4 years of math, 3 years of science, 3 years of social studies, 2 years of a foreign language, and 1 year of fine arts before beginning their university program. Students with a strong combination of class rank and test scores can receive automatic admission: for instance, students in the top 6% of their graduating class and an ACT over 17 or a composite SAT over 850 is eligible; so is a student in the top 53% and an ACT over 24 or an SAT over 1090. Students who graduate in the top 10% of their class and meet the core curriculum requirements are admitted regardless of test scores.
Exceptional Cases
Students who do not meet the automatic admissions requirements may be admitted on a trial basis, however, especially if they have other strengths or skills of note to contribute to the UMKC community.
Priority Deadlines
Priority deadlines remain the same from year to year: February 1st for the fall term, November 1st for the spring term, and May 1st for the summer term.
Further Requirements
There are additional admissions requirements for students in some academic programs, such as the Conservatory of Music and Dance, Engineering, Pharmacy, and the combined Baccalaureate/MD program.
Financial Aid
In addition to the wide range of state and financial aid options open to any college or university student in Missouri, UMKC offers several of their own need- and merit-based scholarships. The majority of UMKC students receive aid of some kind.
Student Financial Aid Details
Ranks 3639th for the average student loan amount.
Secrets to getting the best scholarships and financial aid in Missouri.
Students
Demographics
There are more than 17,000 students enrolled at UMKC at any given time; about 2/3 of those are undergraduate students and 1/3 are graduate students. There are nearly a thousand international students from over 65 countries, creating significant cultural and ethnic diversity at the university.
Student Media
The literary magazine at UMKC , New Letters, produces both a print version and a nationally syndicated radio show, New Letters on the Air. New Letters provides a wide range of internship opportunities for students interested in media work.
Residential Life
The main student dining hall is located in the University Center and features standard dining hall fare. There are a number of coffee shops, conveniences stores, and fast food outlets on campus as well.
Around 900 undergraduate students live on campus. For students who choose to do so, residences include:
Oak Street Hall, a hall constructed in 2004 to house approximately 560 students in suite-styles accommodations with a blend of both single and double rooms It features music rooms, kitchenettes, and recreational facilities such as a pool lounge and television lounges.
Oak Place Apartments consist of suite-style apartments with kitchens and between 1 and 4 bedrooms apiece. The complex features a fitness center, multiple computer labs, and television lounges.
Herman and Dorothy Johnson Hall is a traditional dormitory with separate wings for male and female students. The residence features music practice rooms, lounges, and outdoor green space.
Student Enrollment Demographics
Student Graduation Demographics
Athletics
The athletics department at UMKC is known as the Kangaroos, or the Roos for short. The Roos compete on the intervarsity level in NCAA Division I and the Summit League. The mascot, Kasey Kangaroo, was originally drawn by Walt Disney. Colors are blue and gold. Intercollegiate sports for men include basketball, baseball, soccer, tennis, golf, track & field, and cross country. Women’s sports include basketball, soccer, softball, tennis, golf, track & field, and cross country.
The Swinney Recreation Center contains an Olympic sized swimming pool, a weight training center, five basketball courts, indoor and outdoor tracks, squash courts, and more.
Alumni
Well-known UMKC alumni include Texas State Senator Brian Birdwell, jazz trombonist Robert Brookmeyer, Tool drummer Danny Carey,  founder of the Tuskegee School of Music William Levi Dawson, Dallas Mavericks player Tony Dumas, Missouri Supreme Court judge Zel Fischer, Pulitzer Prize winner and cartoonist Mike Keefe, Florida Governor Rick Scott, US President Harry S. Truman, and Supreme Court Justice Charles Evans Whittaker.
Faculty
Well-known faculty include Pulitzer Prize-winning author Richard Rhodes, violinist Benny Kim, classical composer Chen Yi, opera singer Vinson Cole, and jazz saxophonist Bobby Watson.
Bibliography
About Us. Academics. University of Missouri Kansas City. Web. 12 July 2011.
Degree Programs. Academics. University of Missouri Kansas City. Web. 12 July 2011.
Fiske, Edward B. Fiske Guide to Colleges 2011. Chicago: Sourcebooks, 2010. Print.
Pope, Loren. Looking Beyond the Ivy League: Finding the College That’s Right for You.  New York: Penguin. 2007. Print.
Related Schools
Related schools and/or departments
Henry W. Bloch School of Business and Public Administration
School of Law
Nearby Schools
Schools geographically nearby
Rockhurst UniversityHouse of Heavilin Beauty College-Kansas CityKansas City Art InstituteCleveland University-Kansas CityNazarene Theological SeminaryResearch Medical Center School of Nuclear Medical Technology
Similar Schools
Schools similar in rank, size, etc.
Lewis UniversityMisericordia UniversityFairleigh Dickinson University-Florham CampusUniversity of MontevalloDominican University of CaliforniaOld Dominion University
This website and its associated pages are not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by this school.
StateUniversity.com has no official or unofficial affiliation with University of Missouri-Kansas City.
Copyright Notice |
Privacy Policy |
About This Data
Copyright © 2025 StateUniversity.com – All rights reserverd