Torrey Pines Restaurants | The Lodge at Torrey Pines
Skip to main content
Resort Reservations:
(858) 453-4420
The Resort
Rooms
Suites
Gallery
Offers
Amenities
Enhancements
Accessibility
FAQ
Resort Policies
Dine
A.R. Valentien
The Grill
Culinary Events
Private Dining
Our Culinary Team
Celebrate the Craft
Activities
Events
Resort Activities
Area Activities
Resort Map
Golf Course
Tournaments
Live Camera
Spa
Spa Services
How to Spa
Spa Specials
Loyalty Program
Shop
Meetings
Meeting Venues
Meeting Services
Sip and Swing
Catering
Sales Team
Submit an RFP
Photo Gallery Events
Weddings
Real Weddings
Wedding Venues
Collections
Celebrations
Request a Quote
Wedding FAQ
Accommodations
Dine
Spa
Golf
Meetings
Weddings
Events
Plan My Stay
Savor San Diego's Freshest Locally Sourced Cuisine
The Lodge at Torrey Pines is a dining destination for locals and travelers alike. Dedication to the California spirit is evident throughout the food and beverage program with special attention to locally sourced ingredients as well as regional wine and beer selections. Join us for breakfast, lunch or dinner for a memorable meal with striking views of Torrey Pines.
A.R. ValentienElegant and refined, The Lodge’s signature restaurant A.R. Valentien highlights regional cuisine crafted by Executive Chef Kelli Crosson. Guests can dine outside on the terrace with breathtaking views of the Torrey Pines Golf Course and stunning sunsets over the Pacific Ocean.For reservations, call (858) 777-6635Reservations A.R. Valentien MenuTEMPORARY CLOSURE. A.R. Valentien will be closed through Spring 2025 as we update and enhance our kitchen to continue the culinary excellence that you have come to know.
The Grill at Torrey PinesWith panoramic vistas of the neighboring Torrey Pines Golf Course, The Grill at Torrey Pines features wood-fired dishes and local craft beers. The restaurant’s outdoor patio entices guests with welcoming fire pits and daily sunsets.For reservations, call (858) 777-6641Find a Table The Grill Menu
Culinary Events
Experience the innovative spirit of chefs at The Lodge at Torrey Pines. Keep up to date on upcoming culinary events including  Artisan Table dinner, the annual Celebrate the Craft, and holiday specials.
Discover Culinary Events
Private DiningHost your next intimate event surrounded by the elegant California Craftsman design of A.R. Valentien. Available for groups up to 12 guests, our private dining room features beautiful natural lighting, attentive service, and exquisite seasonal cuisine.Explore Private Dining
Our Culinary Team
Prepare to be impressed by the innovative chefs at The Lodge at Torrey Pines. At the helm is Executive Chef Kelli Crosson, whose commitment to farm-to-table ensures guests have a one-of-a-kind dining experience.
Meet our Culinary Team
When You Book Direct on LodgeTorreyPines.com PREFERRED RATESUnlock the lowest preferred rates and offerings when booking direct.CUSTOMIZE YOUR EXPERIENCECurate your own unique escape with custom features and add-ons.EXCLUSIVE OFFERSTake advantage of the best offers of the season with limited-time deals.
Become a Lodge Insider
Get exclusive news, events and special offers
Sign Up
We’d Like To Know More About You
Please fill in your full name to receive information about promotions, packages, and events at The Lodge at Torrey Pines.
I acknowledge the use of my personal information in accordance with the  Privacy Policy  and Notice at Collection to California Consumers.
Subscribe
Give the Gift of Luxury
with The Lodge at Torrey Pines
Shop
Contact
11480 North Torrey Pines Road
La Jolla, California 92037
Reservations (858) 453-4420
Social
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
The Hotel
Directions
About Us
Offers
Press & Media
We Care
Contact
Careers
Golf Cam
Blog
©
2025
Evans Hotels. All rights reserved.
Disclaimer
Web Accessibility
Privacy Rights
Sitemap
Terms
Top