KAW VALLEY HERITAGE ALLIANCE
Kaw Valley Heritage Alliance
To promote greater awareness, appreciation & stewardship of the cultural and natural resources of the Kansas (Kaw) River Valley.
Jason Fizell, Executive Director
Alison L. Reber, Kansas StreamLink Program Manager
Jeffrey Severin, Kansas StreamLink Field Coordinator
Buy our newest publication:
"Exploring the Kaw Valley:
A Guide to the Natural and Historic Treasures of the Kansas River Valley"
by Lynn Byczynski
Read Attitudes of Kaw Valley Residents toward Surface Water Quality (PDF)
A Survey Commissed by KVHA and funded by EPA Region VII
Prepared by David Burress and Brian L. Harris, Research Economists,
Policy Research Institute, University of Kansas - December 2000
Founded in 1995 by the Kansas Rural Center, the Kansas Land Trust, and the National Park Service; the Alliance has expanded its list of partners to include other nonprofit organizations, businesses, along with representatives of local, state and federal agencies. All partners of the Alliance have endorsed a "Vision Statement" that
guides the actions and work of the Alliance:
The people of the Kaw Valley will maintain a strong sense of place and community. The Valley will be a land of farms and families, of neighborhoods, towns and cities. It will be a place where industry and business thrive; where natural and historical places are preserved; and where clean, healthy rivers and streams support aquatic life and offer recreational opportunities. People will build consensus for resource conservation and will promote
responsible use of air, water, and land, while supporting a healthy economy.
Why The Kansas River?
Increasing population exerts pressures on cultural and natural resources
Source of most Kaw Valley cities' water supply
Provides the principal river-based recreational opportunities in Kansas
Recognized as a watershed with significant pollution problems
Physical changes (sand dredging and reservoirs) have affected the river's ecology
Certain stretches are subject to fish consumption advisories
For More Information, see "The Kansas River Corridor--Its Geologic Setting, Land Use, Economic Geology, and Hydrology," by the Kansas Geological Survey.
All parents out there know how much textbooks are overpriced and how difficult it is to find them cheaply. Here are 5 ways to save on textbooks.
Organization:
The Kaw Valley Heritage Alliance recently incorporated as a nonprofit organization in Kansas. It currently consists of more than 40 groups that have signed a Partnership Agreement. Representatives of these groups serve on the Steering Committee, on the Board of Directors, or on KVHA’s subcommittees. Other individuals, committed to KVHA’s vision but not affiliated with one of the partnering groups, are eligible
to serve on the Steering Committee or Board of Directors as well. Individuals can also help the Alliance implement its vision for the Kaw Valley by working on one of the subcommittees, on the newsletter, or by volunteering to help with programs, projects or events sponsored by the Alliance.
The real work of the KVHA is done within one of the five thematic subcommittees. Participants in the subcommittees include members of the Steering and Advisory Committees as well as other interested citizens. The
five subcommittees are:
Agriculture
Culture and History
Livable Communities
Recreation, Travel & Leisure
Water & Natural Resources
Kansas StreamLink, our highly successful watershed education and exploration program, has its very own wonderful website. Check it out!
For more information on how to get involved in the Kaw Valley Heritage Alliance, send an email note to kvha@kvha.org
The members of the partnership are required to obtain life insurance coverage. This will make it easier to pay off the surviving family members of the deceased.
The best way to get cheap rates, is to compare premium prices online and decide on the best value.
Partners List:
City of Lawrence
City of Manhattan
City of Rossville
City of Topeka
Douglas County Preservation Alliance
Geary County Commission
Geary County Historical Society
Grassland Heritage Foundation
Harris Life Insurance
KS Alliance for Arts Education
KS Alliance for Arts Education
KS Association for Conservation and Environmental Education
KS Audubon Council
KS Canoe Association
KS Chapter of the Sierra Club
KS Department of Agriculture
KS Department of Commerce & Housing, Travel & Tourism Division
KS Department of Health & Environment
KS Department of Wildlife & Parks
KS Preservation Alliance
KS Rural Center
Lawrence Chamber of Commerce
League of Women Voters of Kansas
Merchant Services New York
National Park Service
Northern Flint Hills Audubon Society
Oregon Trail Adventure Company
State Conservation Commission
Kitchenremodelri.com
The Invitation Depot
Topeka Audubon Society
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VII
5 Million Kids
Funding:
Funding for KVHA’s River Festival, publications, and other important programs have been provided by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region VII; Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE), the National Park Service; the Kansas Water Office through the State Water
Plan in support of the Governor’s Water Quality Initiative; the National Endowment for the Arts; the Kansas Humanities Council; and the Division of Travel and Tourism of the Kansas Department of
Commerce & Housing as well as private and corporate support. KVHA welcomes the support of anyone interested in helping the Alliance achieve its goals. Credit card donations welcome. Please contact us at either our email address kvha@kvha.org
KVHA Accomplishments to date:
Developed the Partnership Agreement and Vision Statement
Celebrated the “Rollin’ Down the River” Festival during the fall of 1997
Sponsored Annual Workshops, 1996 – 1998
Organized and sponsored Kaw Valley Eagle Days
Helped underwrite “Sunflower Journeys” PBS-TV series
Published “Caring for the Kaw: A Citizen’s Guide to Protecting Water Quality”
Produced brochures for distribution during the river festival including: Kaw Valley Water Resources; Kaw Valley Habitat; Kaw Valley Encounters; and Rustic Roads
Conducted Oral History interviews as part of documenting the Agricultural Heritage of the Kaw Valley
Provided transportation to Kaw Valley students as part of “Classroom to the Environment" program
Made grants available to classrooms through “Artisans to the Classroom” program
Incorporated as a nonprofit organization in Kansas