Dog and Puppy Training Problems
Puppy Training
Dog Behavior Training
Dog Training Problems
Pet Training Home
Dog and Puppy Training Problems
Tips for Solving Puppy and Adult Dog Problems
Leash Training Your Dog
Most leash pulling begins as soon as the dog sees the leash and knows she's about to go for a walk. If the walk begins out of control, the precedent is set for the entire walk.  Most dogs will learn very quickly that they must sit while the leash is being attached to the collar. They usually tremble with excitement, but ready to explode into pulling on leash as soon as it is attached.
Read more ...
Training Your Dog for Off-Leash Freedom
Asking when you can allow your dog to be off leash is not a whole lot different from the question, "When will you be able to let your son or daughter take your Porsche or Mercedes out for a spin with his buddies or her friends?" The answer can range from now to never. Different circumstances would dictate different answers as well.
Read more ...
Dog Digging Problems
Digging occurs for many reasons. Dogs dig to bury and recover bones; they dig cooling pits when it's hot and warming pits when it's cold; they dig up prey and they dig dens. Digging is a highly enjoyable and natural canine activity. Lack of exercise, prolonged confinement and boredom can also cause digging. Once digging starts, it can quickly become a habit.
Read more ...
Dog Car Sickness or Dog Hyperactivity in the Car
It is not unusual for dogs to have problems related to the car. Usually it is car sickness and fear of riding in the car or unruly and hyperactive behavior in the car.
Read more ...
Training Your Dog to Stop Escaping and Roaming
Dogs that are isolated or confined for long periods of time can become bored and restless. They may try to escape to find entertainment elsewhere. The escape act itself may be a form of entertainment. Many dogs escape just for the fun and challenge of it. A happy, well-exercised dog will contentedly sleep the day away while you are not home.
Read more ...
Training Your Dog to Stop Chasing Cars, Cats, etc...
Chasing is an instinctive behavior in dogs. Dogs love chasing cats, joggers, bicycles, cars, other dogs and almost anything that moves. Moving objects stimulate dogs to chase. Often the dog's predatory nature or herding instinct is stimulated and causes the dog to chase. Sometimes it is just the dog's play response. Dogs love to chase and be chased.
Read more ...
Do You Say This About Your Dog? "He Looks Guilty, He Knows He's Been Bad"
" I come home from work and Rover is slinking around looking guilty. Just as I suspected ! Rover has ripped up the newspaper again. Why does he keep doing it when he knows I'll be mad? Is he being spiteful?"
Read more ...
Dog and Puppy Training ProblemsRecommend this webpage... share with friends !
These articles may also be of interest...
Stop Dog Jumping Up
Dog and Puppy Biting Problems
Training Your Dog to Come When Called
Why Dog Obedience Training is So Important
^ Top of Page
©  Copyright 1995 -
perfectpaws.com, Perfect Paws Publishing. All Rights Reserved.No portion of this site may be used or reproduced in any format.
Privacy Policy/Disclaimer