Kansas City Chiefs 2010 Schedule: Looking Ahead - Arrowhead Pride
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Arrowhead Pride homepage
Horizontal - White
Arrowhead Pride
Arrowhead Pride | Kansas City Chiefs Schedule, News, Roster and Stats
Follow Arrowhead Pride online:
Follow Arrowhead Pride on Twitter
Follow Arrowhead Pride on Facebook
Follow Arrowhead Pride on Instagram
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Arrowhead Pride main menu
Sections
By/For Fans
APP newsletter
Betting
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Sections
Arrowheadlines
News
Analysis
Roster
Free Agency
Salary Cap
Draft
Mock Drafts
Injuries
Game Coverage
Power Rankings
Arrowhead Pride Radio
Arrowhead Pride Video
Odds
Depth Chart
Training Camp
History
Fan Surveys
Discussions
Preseason
Chiefs Roster/Cap
Chiefs Schedule
Chiefs Radio Network
AP on Social Media
NFL RFA/ERFA Rules
Roster Cutdown Reference
NFL Special Roster Rules
John Dixon Draft Value Chart
Football Analytics Glossary
By/For Fans
Recent FanPosts
Active Fan Posts
Fan Shop
Community Guidelines
About Us
Contact Us
APP newsletter
Sign up!
Betting
FanDuel NFL Odds
FanDuel Super Bowl Odds
Kansas City Chiefs Odds
NFL Picks and Predictions
✕
Filed under:
Kansas City Chiefs 2010 Schedule: Looking Ahead
By
Joel Thorman@JoelThorman
Sep 25, 2010,  2:03pm CDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Kansas City Chiefs 2010 Schedule: Looking Ahead
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
CLEVELAND - SEPTEMBER 19:  Running back Thomas Jones #20 of the Kansas City Chiefs is hit by T.J. Ward #43 of the Cleveland Browns at Cleveland Browns Stadium on September 19 2010 in Cleveland Ohio.  (Photo by Matt Sullivan/Getty Images)
Getty Images
I've been perusing the Kansas City 2010 schedule and I have to say I like the way things are turning out.
The Chiefs schedule breaks down into just a few categories from here on out.
The Early Tests
After the Chiefs play San Francisco, they'll be sitting at 2-1 or 3-0, still atop the AFC West so there's no doubt the team thinks it can make the playoffs. They'll receive two early tests that will be an excellent gauge of where they stand in the conference as a whole.
In the toughest two-game stretch of the season, the Chiefs will play the Colts and Texans -- both away.
They won't be favored to win either one but playing against a couple high-powered offenses will be a good test to see where the Chiefs really stand.
Seven Straight Winnables
So the Chiefs proved against the Chargers on Monday Night Football that any team can win any game any time. After the Chiefs two-game test against the Colts and Texans, they face a much tamer schedule that
Jacksonville, Buffalo, at Oakland, at Denver, Arizona, at Seattle and Denver.
I don't think any of those teams will be expected to blow the Chiefs out by any means. In fact, some time during this stretch will likely be the first time the Chiefs are favored to win. But they'll drop a game somewhere. For example, it's tough to imagine the Chiefs sweeping Denver.
Week 14 Against The Chargers
If recent history is accurate, it'll be the Chargers who are near or atop the division late in the season.
The Chiefs travel to San Diego in Week 14 for what could be a big showdown. Having a two-game lead on the Chargers would be significant for the Chiefs. This could be a big division game.
The Rest Of The Way
The Chiefs continue the rest of their schedule traveling to St. Louis and hosting Tennessee and Oakland. Again, like the seven winnables stretch, these are three that the Chiefs will have a real shot at winning.
***
I'm not making any hard predictions on how the Chiefs will do the rest of the way because the season is only two games deep but I do think they'll be at least competitive late into the season. The schedule is actually shaping up nicely for them.
Take a look at the Chiefs 2010 schedule and let us know what you think.
More From
Arrowhead Pride
Most Read
Arrowheadlines: Patrick Mahomes behind Peyton Manning in all-time QB list
Chiefs headlines for Tuesday, March 25
Chiefs get a defensive tackle in new USA Today mock draft
In his latest mock, Michael Middlehurst-Schwartz sends Ole Miss prospect Walter Nolen to Kansas City.
Trey Smith: ‘I love Kansas City; it’s my home’
The Chiefs’ franchise-tagged guard spoke with host Kay Adams on Monday.
Chiefs announce they have brought back Mike Pennel
"The Beast" is returning for the 2025 NFL season.
Oregon DT Derrick Harmon would have a very high ceiling for the Chiefs
There’s a lot to like about this athletic, disruptive player.
What’s new at Arrowhead Pride Premier?
If you want more Chiefs, our newsletter is the answer for you. Three times a week we deliver a new edition to your inbox. Don’t miss Tuesdays with the full hour of our video podcast, the Editors Show, with Pete Sweeney and John Dixon. Check out a free trial below.
Start your free trial
close
Chorus
About Us
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook