×
First name
Last name
Email address
Phone Number
Preferred Date and Time:
Showing Date
Showing Time
Anytime.
8 am - Noon.
Noon - 4 pm
4 pm - 8 pm
8 am
9 am
10 am
11 am
Noon
1 pm
2 pm
3 pm
4 pm
5 pm
6 pm
7 pm
8 pm
I'm working with an Agent
My Agent is with Long & Foster
Sending ...
Submit
About Long and Foster Real Estate | Long & Foster
Log In
Create an account
SIGN UP
Menu
×
Buy
Homes for Sale
All Listings
Open Houses
New listings
Long & Foster Listings
Coming Soon
Luxury
Long & Foster Luxury
Forbes Global Properties
All-Inclusive
Mortgage
Inspections
Title & Settlement
Insurance
Moving
Property Management
Sell
Sell Your Home
Home Value Estimator
Recently Sold Homes
Agent Directory
All-Inclusive
Inspections
Insurance
Moving
Rent
Homes for Rent
All Rentals
New Rental Listings
Long & Foster Rentals
Homes for Rent
Rental Services
Property Management
Long & Foster Vacation Rentals
Annapolis Accommodations
All-Inclusive
Insurance
Moving
Owners
Home Owners
Insurance
Home Warranty
Moving
Title & Settlement
Home Inspections
Investing Services
Property Management
Market Reports
Mortgage
Home Mortgages
Get Pre-approved
Mortgage Calculators
Mortgage 101
Communities
Private Listings
Long & Foster
Join Us
About Us
Contact Us
Leadership
Newsroom
Careers
Blog
Agents & Offices
Find an Agent
Find an Office
Relocation
Log In
SIGN UP
IT’S THE ONE.
If there’s one thing we’ve learned in 50+ years of buying and selling homes, it’s that the process can be just that — a process. Once you find your dream home, come the many — the many steps, the many calls, the many signatures.
Imagine if the many felt more like one. One team in lockstep with your every move, and one real estate company that can do it all. That’s the All-Inclusive Real Estate Experience.
With a team of uniquely qualified specialists, our agents work closely together to deliver a streamlined, stress-free experience to our clients. From Mortgage, Inspection and Title, to Insurance, Moving, Property Management and beyond, we do it all. We not only pioneered the concept, we have perfected it.
The All-Inclusive Real Estate Experience. It’s the one way we think about real estate.
Learn More
98%
Customer Satisfaction
22B
REAL ESTATE
SOLD IN 2023
38K
TRANSACTIONS COMPLETED IN 2023
8k+
AGENTS & STAFF
Internal records and survey results independently administered by Sinclair Customer Metrics.
ONE LEGACY.
ONE COMMITMENT.
ONE BRAND.
What sets us apart is more than a statistic — it’s a legacy. A 50+ year commitment to excellence, one we’re confident we will continue to build upon.
The Long & Foster name needs no introduction in the Mid-Atlantic Region. Our well-deserved reputation of stability, strength, and integrity means you are instantly backed by the credibility of our brand and empowered by the impressive reach of our resources — as a proud affiliate of Berkshire Hathaway’s
HomeServices of America, our agents benefit from added financial support, business operations expertise,
and many networking, referral, and learning opportunities.
“LONG & FOSTER IS SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE ITS PEOPLE ARE.”
P. WESLEY FOSTER, JR., CHAIRMAN EMERITUS
OUR CULTURE.
WE ARE ONE.
OUR MISSION
Long & Foster transforms the homeownership journey with an all-inclusive, streamlined experience centered around agents and their clients. Through close collaboration and team accountability, we provide expert guidance and uphold the highest level of service to empower clients to make confident real estate decisions. Our commitment to professional and ethical standards, coupled with genuine support, makes us the destination for agents who want to grow their business.
OUR VISION
To be the trusted real estate partner that empowers and guides people towards the American dream of homeownership.
OUR CORE VALUES
Respect
Act with honesty and integrity. Putting people first guides our strategy.
listen
Seek to understand. Continuously learn about customers and each other. Build lasting relationships.
TAKE OWNERSHIP
Do the right thing. Never stand still. Grow, evolve, and improve. Challenge the status quo with open minds, creativity, and focus. Great teams hold each other accountable.
CELEBRATE SUCCESS
Play to WIN everyday. Take joy in celebrating our collective accomplishments.
PARTICIPATE
Show up. Be present. Engage in opportunities that move us forward. Be active in the communities where we live and work.
BE REAL
Be honest and straight forward with each other. Communicate frequently and in a clear, timely and constructive manner.
EXTENDING ACROSS
THE MID-ATLANTIC & NORTHEAST
You’ll find Long & Foster’s network of real estate agents, mortgage brokers,
insurance experts and other professionals in offices stretching from Raleigh,
NC, to Philadelphia, PA, and it represents more than 7,000 agents in eight Mid-
Atlantic and Northeast states, plus the District of Columbia. Plus relationships with
Forbes Global Properties, Luxury Portfolio International and Leading Real Estate
Companies of the World give us connections anywhere you want to buy.
Find an Office
EXPERIENCED LEADERSHIP
Our executive leadership team at Long & Foster is composed of
industry veterans who bring unparalleled expertise and vision
to the company. Their commitment to fostering a collaborative
and dynamic work environment makes Long & Foster the
leading choice in real estate.
Meet the team
ONE TEAM.
ONE DREAM.
From start to finish, our agents lead a team of specialists in
Mortgage, Inspection, Title, to Insurance, Moving and Property
Management. It’s one team, with one goal–to make your
dream home a reality.
LEARN ABOUT CAREERS
LOCAL EXPERTISE
Our deep-rooted local expertise ensures that we understand
the unique characteristics and market trends of the
neighborhoods we serve.
CONNECT WITH AN AGENT
Continue the Journey
Become an Agent
Find an Agent
Sell your Home
Contact Us
Services#
Relocation Services
Mortgage
Insurance
Title & Settlement
HomeServices Property Management
Vacation Rentals
Home Warranty
Home Inspections
Tailored Move
Long & Foster Agent Login - HUB
Private Listing Portal - Agent Login
Quick Links
Find an Agent or Office
Home Value Estimator
Find a Community
Long & Foster Blog
Market Insight
New Listings
Long & Foster Open Houses
Real Estate Questions & Answers
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Why Long & Foster?
For Buyers
For Sellers
For Renters
Luxury Real Estate
Luxury Homes for Sale
Private Exclusive Listings
Home Scents
Companies
About
Leadership Team
Become a Real Estate Agent
Real Estate Career Aptitude Test
Long & Foster Companies Careers
Newsroom
Fonville Morisey
Contact Us
Worldwide Connections
Long & Foster Real Estate
facebook
twitter
linkedin
youtube
instagram
Search Homes For Sale By State
Delaware Homes for Sale
Maryland Homes for Sale
New Jersey Homes for Sale
North Carolina Homes for Sale
Pennsylvania Homes for Sale
Virginia Homes for Sale
Washington DC Homes for Sale
West Virginia Homes for Sale
Long & Foster Offices by State
Offices in Delaware
Offices in Maryland
Offices in New Jersey
Offices in North Carolina
Offices in Pennsylvania
Offices in Virginia
Offices in Washington DC
Offices in West Virginia
LEARN ABOUT GREAT COMMUNITIES
Living in Delaware
Living in Maryland
Living in New Jersey
Living in North Carolina
Living in Pennsylvania
Living in Virginia
Living in Washington, DC
Living in West Virginia
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
All contents are copyright © Long & Foster Real Estate, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions, Privacy Policy and Accessibility
Affiliated Business Arrangement Disclosure
*Assumes 6.75% APR, 20% down payment, and conventional 30-year fixed rate first mortgage on a single family, primary residence. Additional required amounts such as taxes, insurance, homeowner association dues, assessments, mortgage insurance premiums, flood insurance or other such required payments should also be considered. Interest rate and annual percentage rate (APR) are based on current market conditions, are for informational purposes only, are subject to change without notice and may be subject to pricing add-ons related to property type, loan amount, loan-to-value, credit score and other variables. Estimated closing costs used in the APR calculation are assumed to be paid by the borrower at closing. If the closing costs are financed, the loan, APR and payment amounts will be higher. If the down payment is less than 20%, mortgage insurance may be required and could increase the monthly payment and APR. Contact us for details. Additional loan programs may be available. Accuracy is not guaranteed, and all products may not be available in all borrower's geographical areas and are based on their individual situation. This is not a credit decision or a commitment to lend.
The unauthorized retrieval or use of this listing data is prohibited.