Garrett Mammoth Jackstock in Stilwell, Oklahoma
Home
Riding Donkeys
Riding Donkeys pg 2
Riding Donkeys pg 3
Jacks
Spring Foals 2024
Spring Foals 2023
Spring Foals 2022
Herd Sires
Meanwhile
Galleries
A Morning Ride
Testimonials
Lucky
Cherokee Rose
Wishbone
Headstalls
Becca
Dozer
Contact
Welcome to Garrett Mammoth Jackstock's website! We would like to wish you a very happy and prosperous New Year.
We have been breeding Mammoth Donkeys for more than 50 years, and a while back, a Garrett donkey was pictured on a USA postage stamp.
Click here to read the detailed news article about Dozer, the donkey and the stamp.
Call
(918) 696-2280 to learn about what's available. Now is the time to realize your dream of owning a Garrett Donkey! We want our customers, and even "just curious" folks to know you're invited, even encouraged to come visit us in Eastern Oklahoma, also known as Green Country. Ride these donkeys for yourself. We'll be sure to make your visit a memorable one, whether you buy an animal or not. Click here for an update on Lucky, a Garrett mammoth saddle donkey.
New Button
Check out our FaceBook page to see all of the recent Garrett Mammoth Jackstock for sale, those that have been sold and more!
Located in Eastern Oklahoma, more currently referred to as Green Country, is
Garrett Mammoth Jackstock in Stilwell, Oklahoma. Bill and Gina Garrett along with their daughter Becca and Grandson Dozer operate the family owned business. Raising and maintaining their herd of 100 Mammoth Donkeys keeps everyone busy.
Starting over 35 years ago with one jack and several mares, our farm has grown into Oklahoma's largest herd of American Mammoth Donkeys. In the infancy of our farm we found it harder and harder to find quality mammoth jacks, so we purchased a few mammoth jennies to have jack foals coming on at all times. We now raise about 30 colts every year to keep up the growing demand of these extraordinary equines. Our love for the donkeys grew over the horses and mules, so we chose to specialize in the donkeys.We have five herd sires that we will be using this Spring. These five jacks are 15 to 16 hands tall and display and exemplify many of the nation's top bloodlines. We have sons and daughters available at all times for your inspection.
In the mid 1980s we began breaking saddle donkeys to ride. Having a broke to ride donkey was unheard of during that time and many people laughed and joked when we went on rides on our mammoth donkeys. Bill always said from day one that the demand for these wonderful riding donkeys would someday be the superior way to go on a trail ride. Time has proven him right, and the demand for saddle donkeys has increased greatly. Bill always tells our customers that if you are past the point in your life of wanting to ride a cutting horse or mule and would like to just take a ride and enjoy the scenery, the saddle donkey is the ride of choice. The growing popularity of these animals is keeping us busy, riding and training daily. We've had several national winners of the donkey race in Bishop California, a 1st place ribbon at the Great Celebration Show in the donkey barrel race in Shelbyville, Tennessee, Grand Champion Jennet and Reserve Grand Champion Jack at the Missouri State Fair, and many other winners in many different classes at shows across the nation.
We welcome all visitors to come look, whether you are a serious buyer or just a curious looker. We invite you to ride our saddle donkeys and find out for yourself what a comfortable rocking chair ride really is. We will be happy to provide you with a reference list of our customers, many of whom have become lifelong friends.We take pride in our animals and strive to find the perfect fit for you.
Address:P.O. Box 1412 Stillwell, OK 74960
Phone:918-696-2280
Email:billcgarrett@windstream.net
Herd Sires
Testimonials
Galleries
Copyright © 2008 thru 2024
Garrett Mammoth Jackstock, All Rights Reservedwebsite by
Ozarks Tech LLC
Share by: