Fleet Management And Reporting | DISA
DISAWorks
DISAScreen
DISA360
DCM Reporting
INEX
ENTERTAINMENT
FUEL TAX ONLINE
FINANCIAL SERVICES
DISAHire
Careers
Online Check-In
Applicant Assistance
Current Customers
Services
Background Checks
Drug Testing
DOT & Transportation Compliance
Occupational Health
Facility Owners / Contractor Management
Entertainment Compliance
Financial Due Diligence
Industries
Diversified Industrials
Healthcare & Life-sciences
DOT & Transportation
Staffing & Recruiting
Franchises
Retail Industry
Hospitality Industry
Financial & Professional Services
Entertainment, Media, & Sports
High Volume Hiring
Resources
Industry Trends & News
On-Demand & Upcoming Webinars
Download the DISA Logo
About
Integrations
Contact
Careers
Online Check-In
Applicant Assistance
Current Customers
DISAInternational
DISAWorks
DISAScreen
DISA360
Others
DCM Reporting
INEX
Entertainment
Fuel Tax Online
Financial Services
DISAHire
Home
DOT Compliance Solutions for Safe and Efficient Transportation Operations
Fleet Management And Reporting
Fleet Management And ReportingBETTER, FASTER, SMARTER FLEET MANAGEMENTDISA's Transportation Compliance team (DTC) helps carriers collect, manage, and maintain data for better, faster, and smarter fleet management and reporting that meets DOT regulations. We have the reporting expertise and innovative technology to deliver prompt and accurate information, on-demand reporting, and auditing solutions for companies of any size.To remain compliant and safe, it’s important for carriers to have confidence in their fleet reporting. DISA's accurate, reliable, and on-demand reporting allows carriers to concentrate on operational performance while knowing they are taking all required steps in avoiding costly fines, penalties, and negative ratings, due to poor record keeping. DOT and taxing agencies demand accuracy in reporting and record keeping; it’s a must for transportation companies.Fleet Management & Reporting Services Include:Fuel Tax ReportingWeight Distance Tax ReportingOwner Operator/Broker SettlementsOut of Route ReportingTax Refund ServicesLicensing and PermittingOperating Authority Setups, Registrations, and RenewalsHours of Service Log Auditing (E-Log and Paper Log)ACE eManifest FilingACI eManifestingDISA provides premier fuel tax, safety compliance, licensing and permitting, and tax recovery services to the transportation industry. With the abundance of data in the operations of today’s trucking companies, we can turn your already available data into something that can be used by drivers, operations, and corporate to help make important business decisions.In addition to the fleet management and reporting, DISA also offers an expansive array of innovative IT services, which includes:Data WarehousingData ScrubbingReal-Time ReportingScheduled Delivery of ReportsReport ConsultingReport DesignReport SupportMultiple Output Options (pdf, xml, xls, txt, tiff, csv, and more)Multiple Delivery Methods (ftp, html, email, and more)ACE eManifest FilingACE (Automated Commercial Environment) eManifest filing is the U.S. Custom's goal of paperless trade in an environment of enhanced border security. Every commercial vehicle that approaches the U.S. border must provide U.S. Customs prior notification of their arrival. With the implementation of ACE, the information is transferred to the carrier to notify U.S. Customs prior to the arrival to the port of entry electronically. DISA provides a full-service, ACE eManifest solution for all carriers, including faxing to your custom broker and obtaining entry numbers.ACI eManifestingThe Advance Commercial Information (ACI) eManifest is Canada’s version of the ACE eManifest filing. Effective April 1, 2011, carriers must have their own generic carrier code to transport goods into Canada. Carriers must comply with this new requirement or risk fines. Rather than waiting until the last minute to register with the requirements, DISA can assist you and help you avoid being held up at the border and being assessed with hefty fines.FLEET MANAGEMENT HELP IS HEREFor help managing your fleet data, custom reporting, and DOT compliance, call us at 281-730-5509 or contact us online below.
Contact US
More information
Transportation Overview
DOT Compliance
DOT Drug Testing
DOT Background Checks
DOT Test History Checks
Previous Employer Checks
DOT Driver Physicals
Driver Qualification Files
Continuous Driver Monitoring
Motor Vehicle Records (MVR)
FCRA Compliance with DOT
FMCSA Approved ELD List
DOT Agencies
FMCSA Compliance
PHMSA Compliance
FAA Compliance
FRA Compliance
FTA Compliance
USCG Compliance
Fleet Management & Reporting
Fleet Management
Licensing & Permitting
Fuel Tax Reporting
Tax Recovery & Refund
HVUT / 2290 Tax Renewal
The DISA Difference
Fleet Management Help is HereDISA's Transportation Compliance team can help manage your fleet data, provide custom reporting, and ensure DOT compliance.
Contact Us
The best of DISA delivered to your inboxEnter your email below to sign up!
Email
SIGN UP  By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to receive news, offers, and information from DISA Global Solutions.Click here to visit our Privacy Policy. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email.
Company
DISA Difference
Industry News
Careers
Our Services
Drug Testing
Background Checks
DOT Compliance Solutions for Safe and Efficient Transportation Operations
Occupational Health
Entertainment Compliance
Financial Due Diligence
Contact Us
Customer Support
Applicant Assistance
Follow Us
©
2025
DISA Global Solutions Inc. All rights reserved.
Trafficking Victim Rights   |   Privacy Policy