Metro Overhead Door
24 Hour Emergency ServiceCall Us: (503) 285-7568CCB #46091 | CC #metrood121mj
— Main Menu —Home
About Us
Services - Commercial Overhead Doors - - Service
- - Installation/New
- Residential Overhead Doors - - Service
- - Installation/New
- Gates
- Access Control
- Self Storage Solutions
- Pedestrian Entry
News - New Products
- Facebook – Overhead Doors
- Facebook – Gates
Gallery
Contact Us
Employment
Home
About Us
Services
Commercial Overhead Doors
Service
Installation/New
Residential Overhead Doors
Service
Installation/New
Gates
Access Control
Self Storage Solutions
Pedestrian Entry
News
New Products
Facebook – Overhead Doors
Facebook – Gates
Gallery
Contact Us
Employment
888LM MyQ® Control PanelMyQ® technology enables you to manage, monitor and control everything from your garage door opener to lights and beyond – anytime, and from anywhere.Protect your investment!A preventive maintenance program can extend the life of your system and help prevent untimely problems.We're here for you!Day or night, we have you covered with emergency service! The Best just got Better!New 8355 and 8365 units now incorporate MYQ technology and Wi-Fi.Metro Access ControlWe also do residential and commercial gates.Four LocationsThree in the Portland /Metro Area and one in Lacey serving Olympia, Lacey, Tacoma & Seattle.Premier ServiceOur employees are well-trained, courteous and efficient.24 Hour ServiceWe offer 24 Hour Emergency Service to our customers. Call us today!Four LocationsWe have four locations, three in the Portland/Metro area and one in Lacey serving Olympia, Lacey Tacoma & Seattle.Newest ProductsWe offer the newest products with the most advanced features.Serving the Portland/Vancouver Metro Area since 1984. Now in the Tacoma area!Metro Overhead Door, Inc. has 4 locations in the Portland/Metro and Tacoma areas, knowledgeable staff of over 80 employees, with over 1,000 years of combined experience at Metro, and 24-hour / 365 day emergency service, we are the solution to all of your garage door, pedestrian door, automated gate, perimeter security products, telephone entry system, parking revenue control, storage facility solutions and preventive maintenance needs; among many others.Contact Us Today!Recent ProjectsResidential GatesRoof top in downtown St. HelensClopay CD12Wilsonville Smart OpsBack To TopTestimonialThank you so much for your company’s prompt response for repairing our gate at Skyline Ridge Forest Reserve.  After waiting  1.5 weeks on another contractor it was very refreshing to have our gate repaired in a matter of a few hours of our phone call.Brad J - Weyerhaeuser Company, Jordan did a great job at Washington Park today. Thank you for the great service.
Jeffrey - Kappes-Miller, So far I have been well pleased with the level of professionalism your service people have demonstrated on both the overhead doors and the gates.  As expected, there is a lot of work and expense needed to bring our gates up to standards.Carl - Owens Corning, I really appreciate all of your help with the entrance door. I also wanted to express my extreme satisfaction with each and every one on the technicians that you have assigned us. They all deliver excellent service and are such professionals. We are so fortunate to be associated with Metro Doors.Michael - The Wyatt, "I would like to take this opportunity to express how very satisfied I am with the work we have had done on our entrance and exit gates by Bill. He is meticulous and pays attention to even the smallest detail. He kept me informed throughout the project and I enjoyed his sense of humor. He is also very good working around a busy entrance and dodging traffic!"Pat - Little Whale Cove,
Copyright 2013-2020 Metro Overhead Doors
Website by H1 Web Consulting