Hotel At End Of Universe
Hotel At The End Of The Universe
Rooms
Gallery
Transportation
Activities
Outreach project
Contact
About Us
Book now
Come Home To The Mountains
Located above Kathmandu valley, Nagarkot is home to spectacular scenery, renowned for its sunrises and sunsets over the Himalayan peaks. Whether you wish to escape the bustle of Kathmandu, explore the valleys or rest in between your time trekking, there is something here for everyone, both in Nagarkot and our hotel.
EXPERIENCE AUTHENTIC  CUISINE AT OUR RESTAURANT
Originally a restaurant before we became a hotel, we offer traditional Newari and delicious intercontinental, Indian and Nepali dishes with your choice of drinks. Extending from the restaurant is our terrace cafe where you can sit out, relax and enjoy the stunning views.
THE BEST VIEWS OF NAGARKOT
From here in fine weather you can admire the Himalayan peaks in all their glory, as well as the picturesque Bhaktapur Durbar Square and surroundings. We can also drive you to witness the renowned sunrises and sunsets atop the Nagarkot View Tower.
REST IN THE BEST COMFORT
We offer a wide variety of rooms to suit all guests (from spacious suites to budget huts), each a blend of the modern and traditional, and all cozy. With hot showers and splendid views, all are comfortable and quiet environments to work, rest, and take in the relaxing atmosphere.
Welcome
A warm welcome awaits you at ‘Hotel at the End of the Universe’ combining breathtaking surroundings and welcoming friendly service. Known for our comfortable guest rooms built with natural materials, for the restaurant with its delicious food, and for the history which gave rise to our name, we we invite you to come and experience our hotel and Nagarkot.
“Just loved it.
It’s one of the best places I ever stayed. Amazing people, made me feel like home. I know I will go back there again just to stay in that hotel.”
Mitasha (India)
“The cabins are spacious and comfortable. Great area to just walk around all day before going back to the main building for food and drinks. Staff was very nice and made my stay very comfortable.”
Collin (USA)
“It is lovely to return to a hotel and be welcomed like a friend…it offers a variety of rooms, has a large outside balcony with spectacular views of the Himalaya mountains and the staff are friendly and helpful.”
Pamela (Australia)
, CFO
Connect with us
facebook
instagram
Gplus
Contact us
Mahankal Temple, Nagarkot
+977-01-6680109 01-6680011
+977 9860209325
oasisbhaju1@gmail.com
Copyright © 2025 Hotel At The End Of The Universe All Rights Reserved.