Eaton Centre
Tweet this page
share on Facebook
Tuesday, 25 March 2025
News
Wiki
Eaton Centre
Montreal Eaton Centre
Bing
Eaton Centre
Eaton Centre is a name associated with shopping malls in Canada, originating with Eaton's, one of Canada's largest department store chains at the time that these malls were developed.  Eaton's partnered with development companies throughout the 1970s and 1980s to develop downtown shopping malls in cities across Canada. Each mall contained an Eaton's store, or was in close proximity to an Eaton's store, and typically the mall itself carried the "Eaton Centre" name.  These joint ventures were a significant retail development trend in Canada during that period.
With the demise of the Eaton's chain in 1999, and the retiring of the Eaton's name as a retail banner in 2002, most of these malls have been renamed. As of today only the Toronto and Montreal Eaton Centres retain the Eaton name. Some malls in smaller urban areas, which were typically the least successful of all the Eaton Centre developments, have been demolished or converted to other, non-retail uses.
Current Eaton Centres
Read more
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia -	https://wn.com/Eaton_Centre
location on Google Map
Montreal Eaton Centre
The Montreal Eaton Centre is a shopping mall located in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is located in the heart of the Montreal underground city, and is connected to the Montreal Metro via McGill station.
Location
Montreal Eaton Centre is located on Sainte Catherine Street, and is adjacent to the former Eaton's department store (now a shopping and office complex known as the Complexe Les Ailes). The centre is connected to McGill Metro station and the Montreal Underground City. Its main entrance is on the north side of Saint Catherine Street, just east of Place Montreal Trust.
The mall has four levels open to the public and contains more than a hundred stores and shops, and a food court.
History
The site that the Montreal Eaton Centre occupies was previously the Les Terrasses mall, which operated from 1976 to 1987. It was built atop the now-defunct Victoria Street, the road and its buildings having been expropriated for construction of the mall.
As with the existing mall, Les Terrasses was connected to the Metro, the Underground City and the now-defunct Eaton's department store, however it differed in many respects from the current Eaton Centre. In particular, the mall layout was a triangular spiral, with gradually-rising interconnected floors, approximately 45 feet (14 m) high in total. Though it had three escalators, one at each point of the triangle, patrons could gradually walk to the top of the mall. Floors were colour-coded and the mall was adorned with trees, plants and ivy. It housed 140 stores, each facing towards the centre of the triangle. It was demolished after only one decade of use and, following extensive construction, reopened as the Montreal Eaton Centre in 1991. Eaton's department store, for which it was named, closed in 1999.
Read more
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia -	https://wn.com/Montreal_Eaton_Centre
Podcasts:
Email this Page
Play all in Full Screen
Show More Related Videos
back
Most Related
Most Recent
Most Popular
Top Rated
expand screen to full width
repeat playlist
shuffle
replay video
clear playlist
restore
images
list
PLAYLIST TIME:
Latest News for: eaton centre
Edit
Psycho Bunny Celebrates the Grand Reopening of Its Fully Renovated Store at the Montreal Eaton Centre
Business Wire
25 Mar 2025
... thrilled to announce the grand reopening of its newly renovated store at the Montreal Eaton Centre.
Edit
Nearly 60% of Ontario drivers say their vehicles damaged in parking lots: Poll
Toronto Sun
25 Mar 2025
Story continues below ... To address this, TD Insurance says, pole pillows — padding that cushions drivers from fender benders caused by pesky parking lot poles — have been installed at the Eaton Centre, Sherway Gardens, and Shops at Don Mills ... .
Edit
Car dealership group invests £100,000 in new Long Eaton site
The Business Desk
24 Mar 2025
The Long Eaton business – called NK Motors – The ... “Having outgrown the Long Eaton site back in 2014, we’re so looking forward to bringing it back to its former glory as a centre for used cars.
Edit
Canadian clothiers sad to see Bay's decline but say they long ago adjusted to new era
Moosejaw Today
24 Mar 2025
“Getting in there .. ... The Bay's decline comes as Simons touts a new outlet bound for the Toronto Eaton Centre, just down the street from the Bay flagship, but Ott suggested it offers limited opportunities for Bay vendors looking to bounce back ... .
Edit
Hudson’s Bay properties, including in Ottawa, in focus as RioCan calls creditor filing ‘disappointing’
Ottawa Business Journal
19 Mar 2025
Other companies exposed include Cadillac Fairview, which in 2014 agreed to pay $650 million for Hudson’s Bay’s Toronto flagship store and the adjoining Simpson’s Tower across from the Toronto Eaton Centre.
Edit
Hudson's Bay properties in focus as RioCan calls creditor filing 'disappointing'
North Shore News
18 Mar 2025
Other companies exposed include Cadillac Fairview, which in 2014 agreed to pay $650 million for Hudson's Bay's Toronto flagship store and the adjoining Simpson's Tower across from the Toronto Eaton Centre.
Edit
Closure of The Bay on Rideau would leave ‘gaping hole’ that would be hard to ...
Ottawa Business Journal
18 Mar 2025
It’s also accessible from the Rideau Centre via an elevated pedestrian bridge ... The Eaton Centre in Toronto is filling the footprint left behind by Nordstrom with Italian restaurant Eataly, a new Nike store and Quebec fashion retailer Simons.
Edit
Lack of store investment, underlying issues led Hudson's Bay to 'slow death': experts
North Shore News
15 Mar 2025
The liquidation process would wrap up in June ... "It is an iconic brand ... "In tourist destinations like the Eaton Centre, for example, if the store is closed and the mall is open, that is a problem ... "Investment firms are like house flippers ... B.C ... .
Edit
Military concert to feature variety of talented Moose Javians
Moosejaw Today
14 Mar 2025
The annual event is on Sunday, March 23, at 1 p.m. at the Timothy Eaton Centre at 510 Main Street North, with the show scheduled for almost three hours. The Fellowship will provide a lunch/intermission, along with a penny parade and 50/50 draw ... Capt ... .
Edit
Eaton agrees to acquire Fibrebond for $1.4bn
Power Technology
12 Mar 2025
Eaton buys Fibrebond, a ...
Edit
Hudson's Bay seeks creditor protection, plans to restructure business
North Shore News
08 Mar 2025
The 185-year-old dry-goods-shop-turned-department-store-chain will open locations in the Yorkdale and Eaton Centre malls in Toronto, where Hudson's Bay has long been an anchor tenant, later this year.
Edit
Eaton breaks ground for its new GEIS facility in Chennai
The Times of India
07 Mar 2025
Spanning 100,000 sq ft, the new facility will feature advanced manufacturing floors, R&D capabilities, an experience centre and Eaton’s state-of-the-art headquarters for GEIS in India ... India, Eaton.
Edit
Canadian stores pull U.S. liquor from shelves as Trump's tariffs take effect
NBC Bay Area
06 Mar 2025
As the Trump administration’s tariffs on Canada and Mexico went into effect Tuesday, Canadians discovered empty shelves where U.S ... Here’s an example of an empty section of the USA products, at the SAQ store in the Eaton Centre ... New Zealand 1 hour ago ... .
1
Article Search
search
tools
You can search using any combination of the items listed below.
Language:
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Assamese
Azerbaijani
Bangla
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bholpuri
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Burmese
Cambodian
Catalan
Chinese
Creole
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
English
Estonian
Faroese
Finnish
Flemish
French
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Greenlandic
Gujarati
Haitian
Hausa
Hebrew
Hindi
Hungarian
Icelandic
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Korean
Kurdish
Kurdish Kurmanji
Kyrgyz
Latvian
Lithuanian
Macedonian
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Marathi
Moldovan
Montenegrin
Nepali
Norwegian
Oriya
Ossetic
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Romansh
Russian
Rwandan
Scottish Gaelic
Serbian
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Swahili
Swedish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Visayan
Welsh
Zulu
Sort:
Most relevant first
Oldest first
Newest first
Indexed:
last three days
last three weeks
Search:
expression in headline and text
all of the words
any word in the headline
boolean
exact string in headline or text
any of the words
all words in the headline
Duplicates:
filter
show
EXPLORE WN.com
Advanced Search
Education
Cities.com
Dubai.com
TravelAgents.com
Weather
World Photos
Cheese.com
Broadcasts.com
Metas.com
Students.com
Emissions.com
Population.com
Domaines.com
Wages.com
Help |
About WN |
Privacy Policy |
Contact |
Feedback |
Jobs |
Students |
Email this page |
Newsletter |
© WN 2025 All Rights Reserved, World News Inc
Connect:
×
×
×
Share this video with your family and friends
×