2011 NBA Draft Big East Recap: Kemba Walker, Marshon Brooks, Jimmy Walker Selected - Big East Coast Bias
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Big East Coast Bias homepage
Horizontal - White
Big East Coast Bias
Big East Coast Bias, For Big East News and Commentary
Follow Big East Coast Bias online:
Follow Big East Coast Bias on Twitter
Follow Big East Coast Bias on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Big East Coast Bias main menu
Fanposts
Fanshots
Sections
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Fanposts
Fanshots
Sections
Big East Basketball
Game Recaps
Game Previews
Game Threads
Full Archive
About
Masthead
Community Guidelines
✕
Filed under:
NBA Draft
2011 NBA Draft Big East Recap: Kemba Walker, Marshon Brooks, Jimmy Walker Selected
By
Patrick_the_Ruminator
Jun 24, 2011, 12:41am EDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
2011 NBA Draft Big East Recap: Kemba Walker, Marshon Brooks, Jimmy Walker Selected
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
In the first round of the 2011 NBA Draft, Connecticut's Kemba Walker, Providence's Marshon Brooks and Marquette's Jimmy Butler were selected.
Walker went at #9 to the Charlotte Bobcats.
Brooks went at # 25 to the Boston Celtics (and then was instantly shipped off to the New Jersey Nets).
Butler went at #30 to the Chicago Bulls.
Then the second round happened...
No Big East selections. Then to see if anybody was still actually paying attention the NBA teams drafted people that completely baffled ESPN.
The Los Angeles Lakers at # 56
D-League prospect Chukwudiebere "Chu Chu" Maduabum with the No. 56 pick, drawing guffaws from ESPN's panel. "Tough to crack the Bakersfield Jam rotation," Jay Bilas quipped with erudite snark.
Congolese player Targuy Ngombo was taken at #57 by the Portland Trailblazers. Or maybe it was the Dallas Mavericks. It was the Mavs who sold him to the Timberwolves. Well, the Qatar league is known for their nurturing of NBA talent, don't you know that?!
But wait, the Lakers weren't done. They used the #58 pick to select wait for it, wait for it, former UConn Husky Ater Majok. Majok averaged 2.3 points per game, 3 rebounds per game and 1.6 blocks per game for the Huskies in 2009-2010. He then left the team and ended up in Australia where he racked up 2.8 points per game, 2.3 rebounds per game and .7 blocks per game for the Gold Coast Blaze.
The Spurs took a guy from Hungary, Adam Hanga, at #59.
The very last pick of the 2011 NBA Draft: Isaiah Thomas of Washington.
What did we just witness?
More From
Big East Coast Bias
Big East offer tracker update (August 29): Xavier, UConn land commitments, final cuts, new offers and more!
Big East offer tracker update (August 18): Amadou picks Marquette, final cuts, new offers and more!
Big East offer tracker update (August 10): Dog days of summer recruiting
Transfer Profile: Bryson Mozone
Transfer Profile: Ali Ali
Transfer Profile: Al-Amir Dawes
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook