News Archives  - Lewiston Sun Journal
Sign In:
Login
Forgot password?   |   Subscribe now
" height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Sun JournalPress HeraldCentral MaineAdvertiser DemocratBethel CitizenFranklin JournalLivermore Falls AdvertiserRangeley HighlanderRumford Falls Times
Offcanvas Menu Open
Sections
Offcanvas Menu Close
Lewiston Sun Journal
35°Forecast
Search forSearch
Newsletters
Lewiston Sun Journal
ePapers
Newspaper Archives
Games & Puzzles
News
All News
Advertiser Democrat
Lewiston-Auburn
The Bethel Citizen
Maine
The Franklin Journal
Crime and courts
Livermore Falls Advertiser
Franklin
The Rangeley Highlander
Oxford Hills
Rumford Falls Times
River Valley
Schools & Education
Nation / World
Community News
Sun Journal News Quiz
Daily Headlines Newsletter
Politics
All Politics
Election 2024
Sports
All Sports
High School Sports
Community Sports
Varsity Maine Newsletter
National Sports
Athlete of the Week
Purchase Photos
Opinion
All Opinion
Letters
Mark LaFlamme
Business
All Business
The Buzz
Noteworthy
Obituaries
All Obituaries
Place an obituary
Death Notices
Local obituaries newsletter
Life & Culture
Things to do
Encore
Guides
bPlus
Puzzles & Games
Mystery Photo
Event Calendar
Add your event
Sun Journal Events
Advice
Sun Spots
Dear Abby
Horoscope
Dr. Roach
Jobs
Job Board
Work Here
Public Notices
Lewiston Sun Journal
35°Forecast
Search forSearch
Newsletters
Lewiston Sun Journal
ePapers
Newspaper Archives
Games & Puzzles
Subscribe
-
$1.52/week
Sign In
Offcanvas Menu Open
My Account
Account Menu Close
Lewiston Sun Journal
Welcome!
Account Subscription: ACTIVE
You are not logged into your account.
You have a registered email address and password on pressherald.com, but we are unable to locate a paid subscription attached to these credentials.  Please  verify your current subsription or subscribe.
Your subscription has stopped. Please update your payment information  to resume service.
Thank you for your support of local journalism! Gift subscriptions are available now.
Subscribe
Subscriber Benefits
Manage Account
Pay My Bill
Access ePaper
Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile Apps
Sun Journal Events
Sign Out
Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached at circulation@metln.org during business hours at (207) 791-6000.
Primary Menu
☰
X
NewsMaine
Election 2024
Maine Crime
Lewiston-Auburn
Franklin
Oxford Hills
River Valley
Nation / World
Daily Headlines
https://www.sunjournal.com/section/news/5974
News
Choose a town
Auburn
Bethel
Buckfield
Farmington
Hebron
Jay
Lewiston
Lisbon
Livermore
Livermore Falls
Mechanic Falls
Mexico
New Gloucester
Norway
Oxford
Paris
Poland
Rumford
Sabattus
Turner
Select a town
Auburn
Bethel
Buckfield
Farmington
Hebron
Jay
Lewiston
Lisbon
Livermore
Livermore Falls
Mechanic Falls
Mexico
New Gloucester
Norway
Oxford
Paris
Poland
Rumford
Sabattus
Turner
Most recent news
Politics
Here is where Maine is challenging the Trump administration in court
Maine AG has faith in court system even as some fear Trump won’t abide judicial orders
Politics
Maine AG has faith in court system even as some fear Trump won’t abide judicial orders
Here is where Maine is challenging the Trump administration in court
Elections
Trump signs order requiring proof of citizenship in federal elections
17 Comments
Androscoggin County
Nearly a dozen departments battle Mechanic Falls house fire
Rumford Falls Times
Peru seeking candidates for Select Board, School Board
Lewiston-Auburn
State police identify body found in Lewiston bog
Body found in Lewiston bog still shrouded in mystery
No identification yet of human remains found in Lewiston bog Saturday
Human remains found in Lewiston bog
Maine News
Franklin
Jay gets grant for washing machine to scrub cancer-causing substances from firefighter gear
Maine Crime
Portland police, FBI announce $10,000 reward for Boston man missing since 2006
Androscoggin County
Looming deficit divides Androscoggin County commissioners on new cruisers
Politics
Angus King presses Tulsi Gabbard on leak of military attack plans
102 Comments
Lewiston-Auburn news
The Buzz
Customers line up early for opening of new bakery in Greene
Schools & Education
Lewiston proposed school budget includes 3.44% tax increase
8 Comments
MORE NEWS
Spring cleanup in Auburn
It’s the dog days of early spring out there
Starting in April, utilities can cut off power to Mainers with unpaid bills
State law prohibits Central Maine Power Co. and Versant Power from pulling the plug on delinquent customers from Nov. 15 to April 15. Consumer advocates and utilities are urging people to reach out.
Social Security official ended program for Maine newborns because he was ‘ticked’ at Mills
Rep. Chellie Pingree said the rationale given by Lee Dudek, the acting commissioner of the Social Security Administration, is 'infuriating and absurd.'
23andMe files for bankruptcy, sparking data security concerns
The genetic testing company says the filing won’t change the way it stores or protects data, but experts are still urging caution.
Trump officials texted war plans to group chat in secure app that included journalist
The president is downplaying the incident as 'the only glitch in two months' of his administration.
Farmington town meeting sees all articles passed in record time
Despite the snowy weather Monday, some 70 Farmington voters were at the annual town meeting.
Oxford fire department chief pitches full-time crew
With a casino, race track and more retail than in neighboring towns, Oxford has the busiest fire rescue department in southern Oxford County.
Farmington Thrift Store to reset with sale then all-April special
A 3-day sale with special pricing March 27-29 at Farmington Thrift Store on Broadway will be followed by a month-long sale in April to prepare for the addition of vintage items.
Mt. Blue school district voters reject grant to purchase former schoolhouse
By one vote, Vienna residents supported buying the former Arthur D. Ingalls school at 144 High St. in Farmington, but all other towns said no.
Medicaid faces threats at state and federal levels
'There’s no room to absorb additional costs' in Maine’s health care system, one health care executive says.
Maine lawmakers urged to keep children from languishing in hospital emergency departments
A bill sponsored by Sen. Joseph Baldacci, D-Bangor, would create 3 'crisis centers' to reduce the number of children stuck in hospitals with no place to go.
Central Maine, Sun Journal name new managing editors
Ben Bragdon will be the Sun Journal's new managing editor and Jessica Lowell was promoted to managing editor of the Central Maine newspapers.
Spring snowstorm blankets central Maine
Several inches of snow fell Monday afternoon in Maine, sending vehicle sliding on the roads.
Franklin County to create 3 offices at Farmington jail
The renovations, at a cost of $162,800, will be paid for through a federal grant.
Wilton town meeting set for June 16 at Academy Hill School
Elections of two selectpersons and one Regional School Unit 9 director will be held on June 10 at the Town Office.
Experts say US weather forecasts will worsen as DOGE cuts mean fewer balloon launches
Weather balloons provide information that forecasters and computer models use to figure out what the weather will be and how dangerous it can get.
Bemis Track in Rangeley Plantation gets funds to fix storm damage
Eighteen sections along an 8-mile stretch of the Bemis Track were washed out in heavy rain and flooding on Dec. 18, 2023.
Former middle school in Mexico razed
The spot will end up a parking lot for Mountain Valley Community School, which is slated to open in early 2026.
Norway to ask voters to tweak several ordinances at June town meeting
Town leaders are working to replace the sign ordinance, which Maine Municipal Association advised is unenforceable.
Gov. Mills fires back after Trump’s demand for ‘full throated apology’
The governor refutes the president's claims that he is trying to protect women, saying that if he wanted to do that he would be focusing on the economy, health care, education and foreign aid.
Franklin County applications for opioid settlement funds available April 1
Applications must support prevention, treatment, harm reduction and/or recovery in Franklin County.
Spring storm delivers slick roads, crashes, closures in Maine
Fire and police departments across the state report a high number of accidents.
Lewiston’s MILL museum can be a cultural hub for the community, leader says
Working: Rachel Ferrante is taking the Maine Museum of Innovation, Learning and Labor into a new era.
Booking Maine’s most sought-after campsites is a competitive sport
Reservations for this summer have opened at many popular campgrounds, and some are filling up fast.
Tips for reserving a site at Maine’s favorite campgrounds
What you need to know to book a stay at the state's most in-demand spots.
Maine teacher shortage prompts multipronged approach
Efforts are underway to raise pay, bolster a UMaine training program and reduce barriers to certification.
Local nonprofit group seeks to increase spiritual healing
Organization looks to buy Hampshire Street building in Auburn to expand outreach programs and help restore relationships in families battling addiction.
Cumberland-North Yarmouth parents, students hold rally supporting trans students
The district gained national attention after an on-camera clash between Gov. Mills and President Trump over a Greely student's win at a girls track meet.
Cardboard Box Race draws friends, support to Mt. Abram mountain
Mt. Abram Ski & Ride in Greenwood held its annual Cardboard Box Race on the mountain Saturday to raise funds to support student ski passes and year-round outdoor recreation for local youth. All photos by Sun Journal photographer Andree Kehn.
Maple sugaring part of education at Maine Academy of Natural Sciences
The Hinckley school’s sugar shack was one of dozens across the state open during the 42nd Maine Maple Sunday Weekend.
The Week in Photos: March 15-21, 2025
Sun Journal photographers select some of their favorite images from last week.
Historic home razed in wind-swept fire in Rumford
Winds reportedly gusting to 40 mph carried embers that started a second fire at 33 Franklin St., the site of the Waldo Pettingill House, built in 1891. Pettingill was the first president of Oxford Paper Co.
Maine mobile home owners are pushing back against private investors
Residents are buying their parks and proposing rent control ordinances to fend off cost increases that have been introduced after parks have sold to capital equity firms.
How insurance companies came to dominate health care funding
Insurance plans boomed in the mid 20th century as a way for employers to attract workers.
Maine reporter May Craig was a pioneer for women covering Washington politics
She is notable not only for her impact on women's history, but also as a reminder of the important role journalists have played as watchdogs of American government.
Industry-backed lawmakers lead effort to further loosen regulation of medical cannabis in Maine
Maine's medical marijuana laws are already among the loosest in the country. Two key lawmakers are pushing to ease regulations further after receiving financial support from the industry.
What 4 Maine mobile home residents say about park ownership
Residents of four mobile home parks share how they fought private investors — with varying degrees of success.
Maine butterfly species among those experiencing fastest declines
A new study compiling butterfly surveys across the country found a 22% overall decline, while seven species found in Maine declined by more than 50%.
Lisbon’s Len Lednum always loved models, but it took a career change for him to think small
Lednum molded a Buxton-based tiny billboard maker into a producer of highly detailed miniature Americana.
Doctors, patients finding relief by switching to direct primary care physicians
Though providers and patients in direct primary care prefer the model, it does not replace all medical services.
Dealing with billfold curses and delicious, cryptic death threats
Mark LaFlamme: They are called 'trousers.' You pronounce it 'MAK-a-roon.' And where are my flip-flops and umbrella drink?
Mystery Photo for March 23, 2025
Correctly guess where this photo was taken and you could win a $25 Hannaford Supermarket gift card.
Spell of the ball: Hancock County student wins Maine State Spelling Bee
Seventh grader Esme Filippo from The Bay School in Blue Hill won the state spelling bee after 22 intense rounds.
Trump demands ‘full throated’ apology from Gov. Mills over Maine’s transgender athlete policy
The president wrote on social media that 'the State of Maine has apologized,' but it was not clear to whom he was referring. The governor's office didn't respond to a request for comment Saturday.
Learning history in Lewiston
Young and old tour the Maine MILL Friday morning.
Maine’s highest court sides with Cumberland cyclist who appealed $151 ticket
Christopher Ray, 62, has been fighting the fine since the Cumberland police chief cited him for riding beside his friend in 2023.
Maine lawmakers consider bill to make banking easier for the cannabis industry
Since cannabis is still illegal under federal law, the lucrative industry has struggled with limited access to loans and other bank services.
Rainfall eases drought conditions, but the relief may be temporary
Much of Maine has been in a period of drought since September — a situation worsened by a drier-than-normal winter.
Tick activity surges in Maine with arrival of warmer weather
If you spot a tick right now, it's most likely an adult deer tick, which can transmit Lyme disease.
Most read stories
Mt. Blue school district voters reject grant to purchase former schoolhouse
Gov. Mills fires back after Trump’s demand for ‘full throated apology’
Historic home razed in wind-swept fire in Rumford
Driver, infant dead after crash on Lewiston’s Grove Street
Doctors, patients finding relief by switching to direct primary care physicians
Contact us
Staff Directory
About the Sun Journal
About Maine Trust for Local News
Send a News Tip
Send a Letter to the Editor
Send a Press Release
Send an Announcement
Add an Event
Ask Sun Spots
Subscribers
Manage Your Account
Log a Delivery Issue
Subscriber Resources
Subscriber Benefits
Access ePaper
Search Archives
Mobile Apps
FAQs
Connect with us
Email Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Advertise
Advertise with Us
Contact Advertising
Submit an Obituary
Network
Work Here
Centralmaine.com
Pressherald.com
Timesrecord.com
Varsitymaine.com
Advertiser Democrat
Bethel Citizen
Franklin Journal
Livermore Falls Advertiser
Rangeley Highlander
Rumford Falls Times
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Ethics Policy
Terms of Service
Commenting Terms
Public Notices
Photo Store
Merch Store
Archives
© 2025 | All Rights Reserved | Lewiston Sun Journal