Edward Tufte
Tweet this page
share on Facebook
Tuesday, 25 March 2025
Wiki
Edward Tufte
Bing
Edward Tufte
Edward Rolf Tufte(/ˈtʌfti/; born March 14, 1942) is an American statistician and professor emeritus of political science, statistics, and computer science at Yale University. He is noted for his writings on information design and as a pioneer in the field of data visualization.
Biography
Edward Rolf Tufte was born in 1942 in Kansas City, Missouri, to Virginia Tufte and Edward E. Tufte (1912-1999). He grew up in Beverly Hills, California, where his father was a longtime city official, and graduated from Beverly Hills High School. He received a BS and MS in statistics from Stanford University and a PhD in political science from Yale. His dissertation, completed in 1968, was entitled The Civil Rights Movement and Its Opposition. He was then hired by Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, where he taught courses in political economy and data analysis while publishing three quantitatively inclined political science books.
In 1975, while at Princeton, Tufte was asked to teach a statistics course to a group of journalists who were visiting the school to study economics. He developed a set of readings and lectures on statistical graphics, which he further developed in joint seminars he taught with renowned statistician John Tukey, a pioneer in the field of information design. These course materials became the foundation for his first book on information design, The Visual Display of Quantitative Information.
Read more
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia -	https://wn.com/Edward_Tufte
Podcasts:
Email this Page
Play all in Full Screen
Show More Related Videos
back
Most Related
Most Recent
Most Popular
Top Rated
expand screen to full width
repeat playlist
shuffle
replay video
clear playlist
restore
images
list
PLAYLIST TIME:
EXPLORE WN.com
Advanced Search
Education
Cities.com
Dubai.com
TravelAgents.com
Weather
World Photos
Cheese.com
Broadcasts.com
Metas.com
Students.com
Emissions.com
Population.com
Domaines.com
Wages.com
Help |
About WN |
Privacy Policy |
Contact |
Feedback |
Jobs |
Students |
Email this page |
Newsletter |
© WN 2025 All Rights Reserved, World News Inc
Connect:
×
×
×
Share this video with your family and friends
×