Culture of Martinique - history, people, women, beliefs, food, customs, family, social, dress
Toggle navigation
Forum
Countries and Their Cultures
Ma-Ni
Culture of Martinique
Martinique
Culture Name
Martinican (sometimes spelled Martiniquan)
Alternative Names
(as part of broader geocultural grouping) French Caribbean, French West
Indian, French Antillean, Antillean
Orientation
Identification.
Early in his exploration of the New World, the Amerindian inhabitants of
Cuba and Hispanola told Christopher Columbus about a smaller island which
they called Martinino. Coming to the island in 1502, Columbus gave it the
name Martinique. Indigenous Carib islanders called it Madiana or Madinina
("Island of Flowers"), designations still used informally in
song and poetry. The Carib Indians of Martinique, however, were eradicated
by the French in the seventeenth century and ensuing Martinican history
and culture has been the result of creolization between French colonial
and African slave societies. Martinicans are French citizens.
Location and Geography.
Situated in the Lesser Antilles of the Windward Islands in the Caribbean,
with the islands of Dominica to the north and Saint Lucia to the south,
Martinique measures 431 square miles (1,120 square kilometers). It is a
mountainous, tropical island of volcanic origin. The 1902 explosion of
Mount Pelée totally destroyed the major town of Saint Pierre
resulting in the capital being relocated to Fort-de-France.
Demography.
As of July 1998 the population of Martinique was estimated at 407,284.
Another 30 percent of Martinicans currently reside in France. Almost half
as many people are born in France of Martinican parents as there are
residents of Martinique itself. About 5 percent of the population residing
in Martinique hail from France. Only about 2,500 Martinicans on the island
are direct descendants of the original French settlers (
békés
). Most of the fewer than five thousand resident foreigners are
agricultural laborers from other Caribbean islands.
Linguistic Affiliation.
As part of France, the official language of Martinique for its
government, schools, newspapers, and media is French. However, the
vernacular which is spoken in most informal and family contexts is Creole.
Derived mostly from French (with sprinklings from African, Amerindian, and
English dialects), Creole is particularly expressive and idiomatic, using
a relatively simple grammatical structure. Creole originally developed out
of the need for African slaves to communicate among themselves as well as
to understand the commands of their French masters. The lack of local
Creole literature has prompted many Martinicans to deny that Creole
constitutes a language. In Martinique itself, Creole is becoming more and
more French as a result of increasing cultural influences from France.
Standard French is widely spoken, albeit in a distinctive, lilting French
West Indian accent.
Symbolism.
Ile aux Fleurs
("Island of Flowers") is one of the island's
unofficial nicknames; the other, invoking its magical charm, is
Pays des Revenants
("Land to Which One Returns"). The
gommier
(wooden fishing boat) symbolizes a society surrounded by the sea while the
bakoua
(a high conical hat woven from the pandanus plant) represents the early
predominant peasant culture.
Colibri
(hummingbird) is the island mascot.
Colorful, striped female dress (madras) with a knotted kerchief represents
the languorous West Indian woman of the past. Music and dance, especially
of a sensuous variety, are distinctly Martinican. Poets and writers have
used the mangrove (swamp) as metaphor for Martinique.
Recently, symbolism has been used to commemorate emancipation from
slavery. Initially,
Martinique
credit for the abolition of slavery had gone exclusively to Victor
Schoelcher, the "Abraham Lincoln" of the French colonies. In
the last two decades Martinican nationalists have campaigned to emphasize
the role of slave revolts and
marronage
(escape) in their actual liberation. The combined French and Caribbean
Martinican identity has created a complex political symbolism that
celebrates the French Bastille Day as well as the Martinican abolition of
slavery.
Metissage
, the mixing of multiple races and ethnicities (particularly French and
African but also East Indian and Chinese) into a composite, multi-racial
society, includes the controversial concepts of
négritude
(black consciousness),
antillanité
(West Indianness), and
créolité
(transcultural fusing with a Caribbean emphasis). Doudouism—the
image of a tropical island paradise with a French accent, laced with
romance and lassitude—usually is regarded as a saccharine
stereotype.
History and Ethnic Relations
Emergence of the Nation.
The existence of a Martinican "nation" is a matter of
dispute. After the definitive abolition of slavery in 1848 (an earlier
emancipation act of the French Revolution was rescinded by Napoleon), the
dominant colonial policy became assimilation: the full extension of French
education, language, and civil rights to all those living under the French
flag. This policy came to its apogee in 1946 when, at the urging of the
representatives of the local populace (especially member of parliament
AiméCésaire), the National Assembly in Paris voted to make
Martinique an overseas department of France. As full citizens of France,
Martinicans are members of the European community.
National Identity.
Society is more like that of France than on other Caribbean islands. A
relatively small group of nationalists demand outright independence for
the island while others prefer autonomy within the French Republic. Most
Martinicans, while preserving French West Indian cultural identity through
Creole language, music, cuisine, and mores prefer not to sever their
political ties with the French nation.
Ethnic Relations.
The békés—white descendants of the original French
settlers—have long constituted the local élite engendering
varying degrees of both envy and resentment. Residual racial preferences
within the non-white populace (lighter is preferred to darker skin) still
mark marital and other social choices.
Metros
(short for
metropolitans
, whites from France) are regarded as outsiders by all Martinicans. Metros
often occupy visible positions in government, civil service, and
education, which local nationalists periodically protest. Intermarriage
between Martinicans and metropolitans is fairly common.
Urbanism, Architecture, and the Use of Space
Departmentalization and concomitant economic change have transformed the
rural sugar plantation character of the island into one highly dependent
on the tertiary sector and urban activity. One-third of the
island's population converges daily into Fort-de-France, whose
narrow symmetrically squared streets are as congested during the day as
they are empty at night. Distinctive colonial-era architecture adapted to
the tropics—wood and stone constructions of large, open spaces with
verandas and light filtering (but wind porous) windows—is gradually
giving way to more "functional," enclosed, air-conditioned
construction. Such architectural change, especially in government
buildings, projects a less colonial look and feel in favor of a more
uniform and efficient French model. An unwalled, conical straw
shelter—the carbet—still dots the landscape and is
reminiscent of Amerindian days.
In addition to the classic war memorials which dot villages throughout
France (and therefore Martinique), monuments to Victor Schoelcher, the
leader of the abolitionist movement, are also common. One monument in
particular—a statue in the Savanna (central park) of the
Fort-de-France of the Empress Josephine, the Martinique-born wife of
Napoleon Bonaparte—has been the object of continuous vandalism for
those who see it as a symbol of racism and continued colonialism
(Napoleon's decision to reinstate slavery is attributed to the
influence of Josephine).
Food and Economy
Food in Daily Life.
Until supermarkets and imported common cuisine (including steak-and-fries
and fast food chains) proliferated, daily Martinican cuisine was
characterized by a unique blend of French and Creole cooking, often laced
with
piment
(hot pepper). Open air markets still supply locally grown fruits (bananas,
coconuts, guava, pineapples, mangoes, love apples, and passion fruit) and
vegetables (breadfruit, chinese cabbage, yams, gumbo, and manioc). Much
Martinican cuisine is prepared from seafood and shellfish including salted
cod,
lambi
(conch), octopus,
blaff
(boiled fish with chives) and the national dish,
court-bouillon
(fish in a spicy tomato sauce). However, one-quarter of the average
household food budget is now spent on mostly imported meats and poultry,
especially beef. Restaurants have yet to cultivate the same air of
sophistication and hospitality as in France.
Food Customs at Ceremonial Occasions.
Boudin
—a fat sausage of spicy pig's blood—is a staple at
all holidays. At Easter and on Pentecost a spicy dish of crab and rice,
matoutou
, is always served. Small fried vegetable or fish cakes (
acras
), used to be reserved for saints days but have become a popular
appetizer. Special occasions call for a gumbo and vegetable soup with crab
or salted meat (
calalou
). East Indian influence is evident in the
colombo
, a mutton, goat, or chicken curry. No social gathering is complete
without drinking a
ti-punch
(straight rum with a twist of lemon sweetened with cane sugar) or a
planteur
(fruit juice and rum).
Shrubb
(rum with marinated orange or tangerine rinds) is served at Christmas.
Basic Economy.
The economy is linked to that of France. The agricultural basis for the
island—banana, sugar, and pineapple plantations—is heavily
subsidized by the French economy.
Local islanders call Mauritius Madiana or Madinina, which means
"Island of Flowers."
Land Tenure and Property.
Nearly one-half of large land holdings were inherited from colonial-era
distributions. Land tenancy may be practiced either by share (
colonage
) or cash (
métayage
). Land division for inheritance purposes is supposed to follow normal
French legal practice but unresolved plot disputes abound.
Commercial Activities.
While the agricultural sector employs only about 10 percent of the
population, approximately one-third of workers are in
government service. Another one-third of the workforce is chronically
unemployed.
Major Industries.
Sugar cane processing and tourism are the major industries.
Trade.
Imports are equal to more than five times exports. Primary imports are
consumer goods and agro-industrial products. Major exports are bananas,
pineapples, flowers, and rum. Martinique's principal trading
partners include metropolitan France, Great Britain, Germany, and
Guadeloupe.
Social Stratification
Classes and Castes.
Universal suffrage and departmentalization (i.e., statehood) have seen
the power of the békés shift from politics almost exclusively to
economics. Mulattos (mixed-race persons) still retain a residual social
edge over those who are descended more directly from exclusively African
forebears.
Symbols of Social Stratification.
Western dress, urban outlook, white collar employment, and automobile
ownership are all traits of social advancement. However, the most direct
hallmark of upper class status besides skin color is the use of the French
language rather than Creole and a metropolitan accent rather than a West
Indian accent.
Political Life
Government.
Martinique is one of one hundred
départements
(states) of the French Republic and one of five overseas departments
(DOMs). It sends four deputies (representatives) to the National Assembly
in Paris and in turn receives an appointed prefect who serves as the
central government's local executive. There are also two locally
elected assemblies: the general council with forty-five members, which is
responsible for roads, housing, transportation, education and overall
infrastructure, and a regional council with forty-one members, which
oversees economic, social, sanitary, cultural and scientific development.
Leadership and Political Officials.
The establishment and exploitation of patron-client relations are
significant means of leadership attainment in this small society. Job and
contract distribution is a major criterion for political popularity.
Political parties can be classified into three major categories: local
affiliates of French parties which are in favor of continued departmental
status for Martinique (the gaullist Rassemblement pour la République,
the moderate right Union pour la Démocratie Française, and the
leftist Fédération de la Martinique); those advocating autonomy
for Martinique within the French Republic (the Parti Communiste
Martiniquais, Parti Progressiste Martiniquais); and proindependence
parties (Combat Ouvrier, Conseil National des Comités Populaires,
Group Révolution Socialiste, Mouvement des Démocrates et
Ecologistes pour une Martinique Souveraine, Mouvement Indépendantiste
Martiniquais). The major figure in twentieth-century Martinican politics
is AiméCésaire, founder of the Parti Progressiste Martiniquais.
Social Problems and Control.
The legal and judicial systems of Martinique are those of France, as are
the police force and
gendarmerie
. They are accorded high legitimacy in the eyes of the populace. The most
common crime is theft, especially car break-ins and automobile theft.
Economic and financial crimes are also common. Social and political
protest movements have occasionally resulted in fatalities. Politically
motivated vandalism has damaged or destroyed monuments and installations
at electricity, telecommunications, police, and court offices.
Military Activity.
France's armed forces in Martinique are the third strongest
military contingent in the Caribbean after the United States and Cuba.
Land, sea, and air units are represented as well as the gendarmerie. Over
five thousand officers, sailors, and soldiers serve in Martinique and
Guadeloupe, most of whom are from France. A special program of
"adapted military service" permits Martinican conscripts to
remain in the French Antilles, receiving vocational training and
contributing to local development.
Social Welfare and Change Programs
Martinicans benefit fully from the generous package of welfare programs
available to all French citizens, covering health, retirement, widowhood,
and large families. Given the high rate of unemployment in Martinique, the
workfare program plays an important role in ensuring a minimal income
level for the least privileged. A joint commission made up of members of
the general and regional councils controls local economic development. As
part of France, Martinique is part of the European community, and has
benefitted over the years from development funds made available through
the community. In anticipation of the 1992 Treaty of Maastricht creating a
single European economic
A house in Fort-de-France. One third of the population converges in
this city daily.
zone, the European community instituted a special program to ensure that
the overseas parts of constituent members not be adversely affected by
economic integration.
Nongovernmental Organizations and Other Associations
Local branches of nongovernmental organizations such as Amnesty
International, the Red Cross, Doctors of the World, and Catholic Rescue
channel Martinican philanthropy throughout the world.
Gender Roles and Statuses
The Relative Status of Women and Men.
Machismo, a long-established tradition within West Indian society, still
permeates Martinican society. There is a long matrifocal history of single
female-headed households, which since 1975 have been heavily subsidized
through government family allowance funds. Women retain power and
influence in the private domain but in the more public spheres few women
(with some exceptions in the fields of education and culture) occupy
positions of high authority. Contraception has created a "fertility
revolution," decreasing the child bearing average from almost six
children in the 1950s to slightly over two in the 1990s.
Since the 1980s over one-half of Martinican women have entered the
workforce, where they are disproportionately represented as salaried
employees in the services sector where they are employed as servants,
clerical workers, and teachers. Martinican women are three times as
underemployed and more unemployed than men. One-fifth of women have
achieved middle class economic status. Despite an evolution among the
young and middle class, the combination of large numbers of unmarried
women in an economy that creates pressure for marriage puts wives in a
vulnerable position within the household, where they must often submit to
male chauvinistic attitudes and behavior lest their husbands abandon them
and/or take mistresses.
Marriage, Family, and Kinship
Marriage.
In principle, Martinican couples marry by mutual consent on the basis of
love. Particularly in village society, this typically follows a period of
premarital co-residence and, frequently, childbirth. Families often apply
subtle pressure to ensure that their eligible children "marry
up" or at least do not "marry down" in terms of class
and, especially, race as measured by skin color. Strong pressures to
maintain endogenous family ties are exercised within the béké
community. Legal formalities for marriage and divorce are those of France;
declarations of common law marriage (
concubinage
) may be made at town hall. Approximately two thousand marriages are
performed yearly in Martinique; between three hundred and four hundred
divorces are processed. Little more than one-third of eligible age
Martinicans (age 18 for men, age 15 for women) are in fact married.
Domestic Unit.
The domestic unit in Martinique has evolved somewhere between the nuclear
and extended family. Couples live together with their children without the
benefit of formal matrimony, and nearby relatives often assist with child
care. Approximately one-third of single mothers are heads of the household
and depend on relatives for child care and housework. Feminist challenges
notwithstanding, it has been a longstanding practice in Martinican society
for men to take mistresses.
Inheritance.
Inheritance follows the laws of France. In practice, particularly due to
a high frequency of "illegitimate" heirs, following death
the division of land and real estate may be subject to dispute and
protracted litigation.
Socialization
Child Rearing and Education.
Child rearing is strict and often includes corporal punishment. In
households where the father is present, it is generally he who is in
authority. Martinique benefits from the same highly developed child care
infrastructure and school system in place in France.
Higher Education.
Even before the establishment of the University of the
Antilles—French Guiana in Schoelcher pursuing a higher education in
France was the goal of upwardly mobile Martinicans. University and
professional degrees convey high status in local society. University
education and professional training abroad (particularly in France) carry
more weight in local eyes than do equivalent educational experiences in
Martinique.
Etiquette
Formality and social distancing characterize most interactions between
strangers in Martinique. Language is the principal means by which social
distance is established and maintained. Even though Creole is the lingua
franca it is much more polite to address the other, at least until a
sufficiently close relationship is established, in French. It can be
considered disrespectful to initiate conversations in public spaces (i.e.,
government offices, stores) in Creole. If one can speak French, addressing
a stranger in Creole is to acknowledge that person as socially inferior.
Respecting French language norms of politeness (such as second person
usage of the more formal
vous
as opposed to
tu
) is also a must. Shaking hands is part of local etiquette.
Informal interactions call for more intimate social exchanges. These
include double (and even triple and quadruple) cheek kissing, even between
members of the same sex. While double cheek kissing parallels that of
French society in its frequency, it is performed in a distinctly Antillean
style: more slowly and with greater head turning for a more perpendicular
cheek-to-lip encounter.
Religion
Religious Beliefs.
Ever since the establishment of French rule Roman Catholicism has been
overwhelmingly predominant. In recent years evangelical Protestantism
(e.g., Seventh Day Adventists) has been growing in strength as have
Jehovah's Witnesses. Bahai, Jewish, and Muslim faiths also have
their own sites of religious and cultural congregation.
Throughout and beyond the slave era a parallel system of belief and
practice, known as
quimbois
, has existed alongside Christianity. Quimbois encompasses plant and herb
remedies, sorcery, and spiritual healing, and is embedded deep within
popular culture. A version of nineteenth century Hinduism, brought to the
West Indies by south Indian immigrants, still survives in small temples
and shrines where the burning of incense, garlanding of statues, and
offering of sacrifices are still practiced. Both Hindus and
quimboiseurs
ordinarily consider themselves also to be Catholic while the local
Rastafarians—a sect that began in Jamaica and worships the late
emperor, Haile Selassie—break more squarely with Western religion.
Religious Practitioners.
An archbishop presides over forty-seven parishes and over 60 priests.
Rituals and Holy Places.
In addition to the regularly celebrated Catholic holidays (Christmas,
Easter, All Saints Day, etc.) each commune (district) organizes an annual
celebration in the name of a saint or Catholic holiday. Annual local
Catholic pilgrimages include Sacré Coeur in Balata, the Way of the
Cross of Mount Vauclin, Notre Dame de la Salette in Sainte-Anne and
Saint-Michel in François. Notre Dame de la Délivrande,
celebrating the 1851 rescue of Martinique's first bishop from a
tropical storm in the Atlantic, has become the patron saint of the island
as well as the pilgrimage of Morne-Rouge. A number of Martinicans partake
in the cult of miraculous medal of Sainte Catherine Labouréin Paris.
In recent years there has been annual revival of the Hindu
mela
.
Death and the Afterlife.
Death announcements are a regularly scheduled part of the daily official
radio program. Funeral rites invariably follow Roman Catholic practice
and, especially in villages, include public funeral processions in which
men are uniformly dressed in black suit, white shirt and black tie.
Jour des Morts
(Day of the Dead), when people gather in cemeteries after dusk to light
candles at grave sites, is observed 2 November, the day after All
Saints' Day.
Medicine and Health Care
Modern medicine, administered through the Administration of Health and
Social Services of France, has supplanted rural medical beliefs and
practices relying on herbal cures. Folk or traditional medical
practitioners (
guérisseurs
) are no longer common even in villages. Widespread belief in
quimbois
(sorcery) and the associated concepts of the evil eye and
Produce and goods for sale at an open-air market in Saint-Pierre.
Traditional meals are a combination of French and Creole cuisines.
devil's work has been supplanted by psychiatric and other
scientific explanations of extraordinary behavior.
Secular Celebrations
In addition to all the national holidays of France such as Bastille Day,
Armistice Day, and May Day, Martinique observes Emancipation Day (marking
the end of slavery) and
Bannzil Kréyol
(the International Day of Creole). Although originally grounded in
Catholic ritual (encompassing, in particular, Mardi Gras and Ash
Wednesday) Carnival has become a more secular and boisterous festival.
Distinctive and often wild costume and behavior are on display, as groups
vie in parade for attention and appreciation. On Mardi Gras regalers dress
in red; the following day, in black and white. Music and dance
"wake the dead." Vaval, a giant puppet, is the symbol of
Carnival, and each year personifies a new theme. Vaval's ritual
bonfire at Wednesday dusk marks the end of the raucous festivities.
The Arts and the Humanities
Support for the Arts.
Martinique is endowed with an extraordinarily rich infrastructure for the
arts: that of the region (FRAC-Regional Funds for Contemporary Art); the
municipality of Fort-de-France (SERMAC-Municipal Service of Cultural
Action); and mixed national and departmental (CMAC-Martinican Centre of
Cultural Action). Festivals for artists and musicians, competitions and
prizes, and concerts and institutional acquisitions support every art
genre.
Literature.
Explorers and missionaries (Father Labat being the most renowned)
introduced seventeenth century Martinique to the world. A rich indigenous
oral literature, best represented by the folk tales of the wily rabbit
Compère Lapin, developed during the slave and post-slave era. With
the publication of
Return to My Native Land
(1939), AiméCésaire explained
négritude
(black consciousness of Africa and its West Indian diaspora) to the rest
of the world; Edouard Glissant (
The Lizard
;
Antillean Discourse
) followed this genre. Psychiatrist Frantz Fanon provided a penetrating
analysis of the French West Indian mentality in
Black Skin, White Masks
(1952). Contemporary Martinican writers of note include Patrick
Chamoiseau (whose novel
Texaco
won the Prix Goncourt) and Raphaël Confiant (
The Negro and the Admiral
).
Graphic Arts.
The most notable graphic arts movements are the 1970s Caribbean Negro
School, inspired by apprenticeship in Africa following study in France;
and the 1980s Fromajé, steeped in the island's ancestral
heritage. Annual artistic events are CMAC displays of paintings and
sculptors, pastels and watercolors; SERMAC's Festival of
Fort-de-France; and expositions by the Association of Young Martinique
Artists (ADJAM) and the Martinican Association of Plastic Artists (AMPC).
FRAC hosts artists-in-residence and degree-granting training is offered by
the Regional School of Plastic Arts of Martinique (ERAPM). Legacies of
Carib Indian culture survive in basket weaving and artisinal pottery from
the colonial era continues but the Trois-Ilets Pottery has been
modernized.
Performance Arts.
Around the world Martinique is popularly known for its music, thanks to
such groups as Kassav and Compagnie Créole. Zouk has largely
supplanted the
biguine
of the past although the group Malavoi preserves a traditional
instrumental style. A distinctive style of drumming is
gwo-ka
. Theater flourishes, especially at the Municipal Theater and Regional
Dramatic Center. The Grand Ballet of Martinique maintains the
island's folk heritage, mostly for the tourist audience.
The State of the Physical and Social Sciences
Research institutes of France in Martinique include those for general
science and development, geography, agronomy, geology and mineralogy, and
oceanography. Demographic and economic studies are conducted through INSEE
(National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies). The Martinican
campus of the University of the Antilles-French Guiana offers two tracks
of study: law and economics; and letters and social sciences. Training
courses for social work, business and management, and nursing and
midwifery are also available.
Bibliography
Bernabé, Jean, Patrick Chamoiseau, and Raphaël Confiant.
Éloge de la Creolité/In Praise of Creoleness,
1990.
——. "Towards 1992: Political-Cultural Assimilation
and Opposition in Contemporary Martinique.
French Cultural Studies
3: 61–86, 1992.
——, and Fred Reno, eds.
French and West Indian: Martinique, Guadeloupe, and French Guiana
Today,
1995.
Césaire, Aimé.
Return to My Native Land,
1971.
Chaimoiseu, Patrick.
Creole Folktales,
trans., 1994.
Constant, Fred. "The French Antilles in the 1990s: Between European
Unification and Political Territorialization."
Caribbean Studies 26
(3–4): 293–243, 1993.
Daniel, Justin. "Political Constraints of Economic Dependency: The
Case of Guadeloupe and Martinique."
Caribbean Studies 26
(3–4), 311–334, 1993.
Fanon, Frantz.
Black Skin, White Masks,
trans., 1966.
Guilbault, Jocelyn, et al.
Zouk: World Music in the West Indies,
1993.
Horowitz, Michael M.
Morne-Paysan. Peasant Village in Martinique,
1967, reissued 1992.
Lasserre, Guy, and Albert Mabileau. "The French Antilles and Their
Status as Overseas Departments." In Hilary Beckles and Verene
Shepherd,
Caribbean Freedom: Economy and Society from Emancipation to the
Present: A Student Reader,
1996.
Miles, William F. S. "Abolition, Independence, and Soccer:
Premillennial Dilemmas of Martinican Identity."
French Politics and Society
17 (2): 23–33, 1999.
——. "Deja Vu with a Difference: End of the Mitterrand
Era and the McDonaldization of Martinique."
Caribbean Studies
28 (2): 339–368, 1995.
——.
Elections and Ethnicity in French Martinique. A Paradox in Paradise,
1986.
Murch, Arvin.
Black Frenchmen. The Political Integration of the French Antilles,
1971.
—W
ILLIAM
F. S. M
ILES
Also read article about Martinique from Wikipedia
User Contributions:
1 Martin Bran⚠Great information this really helped me on my homework. 2 Tracie⚠Hi! I really thought this web site helpful for french. I am in 7th grade and our teacher expects almost all the things that are talked about on here!
THANKS!!!!! 3 shelby⚠this helped me alot on my french project!!! it has evrything you need to know. 4 Josiane Rosamond⚠I was raised in Martinique.  Its refreshing to see what I remenber of my corner of the world moreover what I could share accuratly with my son.  He discovered the site and we spent hours at the computer discovering together the other side of his pool.  He is bicultural with a new understanding in history, geography, culture and folklore.  A sense of belonging thet we could hold strong.  Thank you for the most important details- from religion to art and sciences to even thr picture of the beach in the north of my island where I his mother was wery happy to relate the eruption of the volcano in 1902 in Saint-Pierre.
Thank you .  You made us happy,very happy... 5 marie⚠Thank you so much!  You have made my life a whole lot easier when it comes to French projects!  My grade is saved, thanks to you! 6 Jody⚠If it were not for this site my assignment on Caribbean Studies would not have been started, muchless to be completed. Thanks alot 7 Brad Canales⚠Awesome compilation of information.
It's so hard to find good information on the Antilles, since everything that ever comes up is a travel agency website.
This really helped for my International Baccalaureate French Oral examination. Thanks. 8 Ghyslaine ROC⚠Dear you all
Can you, please, tell me what is the exact definition of the term "Creole" as an ethnic group in Maritinique, and where to find a proper dictionary of Martinican "Creole"?
Thanks. Regards.
Ghyslaine ROC
London
7/5/2008 9 Chayanne⚠I love this article. It helped me also on my french project.I'm in 10th grade and hope I'll get a good grade on it Thanks alot!!!!! 10 LoÃ¯s⚠i am martinican and i can say those informations are complete and explain exactly what happen in my island . this text is simple to understand and very good for college students 11 savannah⚠Hey um... this really helped me on my assignment.thanx alot im in 9th grade and im in french 1 so again thank you 12 jay⚠hey thanx this really helped me with my project i am sure that ill get a good grade thanx to this website 13 Derek⚠Hi, do anyone know if desquez, or dezques is a last name associated with the island of martinique? my grandfarther was born there which was his last name supposedly and i'm trying to locate my family please email me raglandderek77@yahoo.com 14 jordan⚠This helped my project so much. you have no idea. thank you. 15 Dazzy⚠Thanks-- this helped with my report a lot! :D
Lalalalalalalallalalalalalallalalaal!! 16 Antonio⚠This website is very helpful for my French project... 17 JWAT⚠This was everything I needed for my final oral presentation for my summative. It was great and had all the information i needed. Thanks! 18 Dr freddy oscar di paula cadremi bfg⚠it was very intersting ,i need to know if i have relative in martinica because my grand father ms carlos oscar cademy bisue was from mont pitre the town that was destroyed by the vocan and he never come back to the island ,please give some information about if ome cadremi or cadremy alive in the island .thank a lot 19 Shanice⚠This site really helped me with my French project.  I was able to find all the information I needed right here. Also learned a great deal about my family and where they came from.
Thanks 20 inesha⚠this country looks beautiful.i want to go there. sounds amazing too. for 9th grade french project 21 Lexi⚠Great site. For my French report, does anyone know how martinicans get around and how they live(houses?)thank you 22 valentine⚠I'm in seventh grade and I'm doing this island study for my geography class.  I wassupposed to spend my two week long winter break working on it but instead I decided to hang out at my friends houses instead of doing my homework.  I don't regret my decisions, but I'm still glad I found this siteor my project never would've gotten finished.  Thanks a lot!! 23 Cheesocreep⚠Great information. This helped me a lot on my French project. =] 24 Confused⚠So do Martinicans appear as being African or French? How would society classify them? Just kind of confused, never heard of this mix. 25 E-J⚠Extremely informative; just the type of information my nephew will need to make his Martinique visit meaningful. 26 Scott⚠Hello,
I've been conducting some historical research of Martinique.
Would anyone know what flag or flags the French Military had between the years of 1750-1760 on Martinique.
Thank you!
Scott 27 Kaylyn⚠It's ralely great that people are sharing this information. 28 Nzier⚠I have some questions if you dont mind answering them. 29 jessica⚠Great article! i learned a lot and i really like your writtng (: 30 Alyssa.⚠Helped me so much on my French project!  Great information. (: 31 ervin⚠helped me a lot on my research presentation from English 32 UR MOTHER⚠THANK You so much for the info that helped me in the project i was doing im really bored shmoigen 33 ?⚠thanks for the information :D, it helped out a TON. 34 ?⚠Thanks! I am so glad this website is here! I need to get my 6th grade French project on Martinique done. 35 freddy di paula cadremi⚠thank this is very good , i need to know ,how i can get some information about the family of my grandfather  charle oscar cadremi  he was born in mont pitre  at the end of 1890 and his family they lived there went the volcan explote, ?could you help mi , i live in caracas, 36 delmy Suarez⚠Thank you so much for this information, My gray grandfather was from martinique he lost his family during the explotion of the volcano while he was in Panama I would
like to know if I have family in martinique his name was Paul C Quemain
Any information will be helpful 37 Tamara   Bryant⚠who wrote this particular piece literature please and thank you 38 anissa⚠your website help me learn more about my country thank you so much 39 Melaney Fajardo⚠Thank so much. This website was a HUGE HUGE help on a essay we have for french I am in the 7th grade and without this I would be clueless. Once again THANK YOU 40 Ruben Diaz⚠THIS IS AN AMAZING WEBSITE. Honestly, thank you a lot. 41 ...⚠Like everybody else has commented, great website with so much helpful info.
THANK YOU!!! I'm doing a French Culture assignment for Year 9 French, and this gives me all I need to know. 42 angela a a⚠This website has been of immense help on getting information for my article. 43 Kalyn⚠I am so thankful I found this site, as I have a French assignment due tomorrow as a part of our exams. This really helped me on the cuisine and culture of the Island. I am so delighted to say that this website not only gave me a boost in finishing the assignment, but it taught me more about Martinique culture and religion and so much more than I ever thought about. I do hope one day I get to visit Martinique, for it is so beautiful. I thank you for your help. 44 Annette⚠I could just learn about a contry just like that. This website is wonderful , as a parent I could kown alot of information so i can tell my child every thing that I have learnt 45 carla.lagace.⚠My family owned a sugar plantation on the island grate grand mother and grandfather back 7gen. Family name was DOWNING wish I had more info on my family. 46 lena mcletchie⚠Looking for relatives of Hortense Lora. She spoke french.  Not sure which French island she orginated from. She was married to A Gooding from barbados. They both lived in Trinidad. Can anyone help? 47 Patt Willett⚠My husband and I vacationed there in 1986 and had a taxi driver named Daniel Kuta. He drove a green Mercedes and I would love to get in contact with him via email or Facebook. Do you know how I can find him? 48 Nancy⚠Thank you for all that information, it helped me a lot for the french project!!!  Finally, I think my french techer got all of the informations from here, because everything that you said was basicly all on there. 49 lili⚠Is it possible to translate the page or website? i am using a chrome book i dont know if i have to chage something on it or if there is a translated page. please help 50 dub⚠Great website helped on my project for Martinique and got an A+ 51 Rafiat mohammed⚠I am from Trinidad very informative I have learnt so much about martinque from this site great job
Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:
Name:
E-mail:
Show my email publicly
Public Comment: (50-4000 characters)
✍ Send comment
Culture of Martinique forum
"
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Copyright 2008 The Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.  •  Terms & Privacy  •   Website © 2025  Advameg, Inc.