SBY
audit@sby.com.my
+603 - 2693 8837
Home
About
Company Profile
Management Team
Our International Association
Fun@Work
Clients
Services
Audit And Assurance
Taxation
Corporate Advisory & Consultancy
Career
Insights
Publication
Useful Links
Contact Us
Audit & Assurance
Independence And Rigor Provide Confidence And Transparency For Stakeholders And Society. In the fast-moving world of business, comprehensive and objective auditing continues to be invaluable. Building public trust in company reporting enhances confidence that enables business relationships and facilitates efficient capital allocation, promoting investment and growth.
Taxation
Achieving Your Tax Objectives In Today's Ever-Evolving Global Landscape. As the pace and complexity of tax laws continue to increase, professional advice is essential. We will work with you to help tailor solutions using local knowledge and global experience in this increasingly challenging tax environment.
Corporate Advisory & Consultancy
Achieving Your Objectives To Gain Advantage Requires Experience And Foresight. Make The Best Decisions To Move Your Business Forward With Confidence. Tailored Services, Technical Excellence, Confidentiality And Ethical Behavior Build The Long-Lasting Relationships We Share With Our Clients, Whether Large Groups, Mid-Caps Or Private
About us
SBY Group is an established body of professional firms
That provide professional business solutions, encompassing audit and assurance services, taxation, corporate advisory and consultancy.
SBY Group comprises the following professional entities:
SBY Partners PLT (Reg. No: 202106000003 (LLP0026726-LCA) / AF: 0660)
SBY Taxation Sdn Bhd (Co. no.: 199601042846 (415199-A))
Discover More
What We Do
Audit and Assurance
Independence and rigor provide confidence and transparency for stakeholders and society. In the fast-moving world of business, comprehensive and objective auditing continues to be invaluable...
Discover More
TAXATION
Achieving your tax objectives in today's ever-evolving global landscape. As the pace and complexity of tax laws continue to increase, professional advice is essential...
Discover More
Corporate Advisory & Consultancy
Achieving your objectives to gain advantage requires experience and foresight. Make the best decisions to move your business forward with confidence.
tailored services, technical excellence, confid...
Discover More
SBY GROUP
OUR STORY
SBY Group is an established body of professional firms that provide one-stop business solutions, encompassing audit and assurance services, taxation and corporate advisory.
OUR VALUES
Value People First
Add Value to the Services
Lifelong Learning
Uphold quality and Integrity
Exceed expectation
Serves our clients
Links
Home
Company Profile
Career
Publication
Contact us
Opening Hours
Mon - Thursday: 9:00 am - 6:00 pm
Friday: 9:00 am - 5:00 pm
Close on Weekends and Public Holidays
Wisma SBY, 9D, Jalan Medan Tuanku, Medan Tuanku, 50300 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
audit@sby.com.my
+603 - 2693 8837
© Copyright  All rights sby
Developed by: Gleaming Media Technologies LLP