Renton Washington
Online Highways Home > Washington >
Renton
Search
Renton Washington
Renton is located in King County at the southern end of Lake Washington. It lies along Interstate 405, southeast of Seattle.The area was originally a Duwamish Indian encampment. Clay works were established in 1901 as well as an iron foundry in 1905. During World War II, a Boeing aircraft plant started up here, boosting the town's numbers.Today Renton, population 51,140, has become a major industrial city and a freshwater port of entry via the Lake Washington Ship Canal. Chief among its industries is jet aircraft and railroad car production. Attractions include the Spirit of Washington Dinner Train.Renton is part of the Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, WA metro area.
St. Stephen Catholic Church | Restaurants, Cafes, Delis, Bakeries Jubilante Restaurant | Spirit Of Washington Dinner Train | Motels, Hotels, and Resorts The Lodge at Eagle Ridge  | Sports and Sporting Events Cascade Canoe and Kayak Centers | Transportation Sound Flight Seaplane Charters | Spirit of Washington Dinner Train |
See more Washington Cities and Towns.
Request a Free  copy of the Mile-by-Mile Guide to the Oregon Coast, which will be delivered to your USA postal address. Also request a free first issue of Oregon Coast magazine and sign up for coast deals.
03/25 Coming to The  areaWater Music Festival Seaview WA April1 The Water Music Festival is an all-volunteer non-profit organization dedicated to bringing quality chamber music to the Lower Columbia River Region.Astoria-Warrenton Crab and Seafood Festival Warrenton OR April26 Crab and seafood as well as entertainment. Listen to the Astoria HS Jazz Band on Sunday.Seattle Japanese Cultural Festival Seattle WA April26-28 The festival features Japanese exhibits, performances, and demonstrations. Held at the Seattle Center in the Fisher Pavilion. The annual festival began in 1976 with a gift of 1,000 cherry trees to the city of Seattle from the Japanese government to celebrate the U.S. Bicentennial.Grays Harbor Shorebird Festival Hoquiam WA April26-28 Witness the migrating shorebirds at Grays Harbor National Wildlife Refuge and other birding hotspots in Grays Harbor County. Apple Blossom Festival Wenatchee WA April1-May5 A delicious part of the Apple Blossom Festival is the Washington State Apple Blossom Festival Food Fair.Leavenworth Spring Bird Fest Leavenworth WA May16-19 Learn about the wide variety of migratory birds that come here for a brief, but important part of their year: the breeding season. Hear the songs sung only during the breeding season.