Young actor says sayonara to Paul Laugier's Tall Man
youtubeCheck out our New JOBLO YOUTUBE NETWORK website now!
Movies
Horror
TV
Originals
Video
Upcoming
More
Pop Culture
Lists
In Theaters
Streaming
Blu-Ray Discs
About Us
Login
Logout
youtube
facebook
instagram [#167]
Created with Sketch.
Follow the JOBLO MOVIE NETWORK
facebook
instagram [#167]
Created with Sketch.
Follow us on YOUTUBE
Follow ARROW IN THE HEAD
facebook
instagram [#167]
Created with Sketch.
Follow AITH on YOUTUBE
search  Search
Home » Horror News » Young actor says sayonara to Paul Laugier’s Tall Man
Young actor says sayonara to Paul Laugier’s Tall Man
By Moises Hernandez
November 5th 2010, 10:35am
Last Updated on July 23, 2021
If you haven’t already heard Paul Laugier is following up his previous thriller MARTYRS with THE TALL MAN, a mysterious flick about a tall looking fellow who takes little kids. The project is currently in development but has recently hit a few snags. One of those snags is a young boy who plays a crucial role in the film. Kyle Harrison Breitkopf, who plays the son of Jessica Biel’s character, has decided to not continue with the film. He made the announcement via his facebook page.
“I am not finishing the film. Please understand and be supportive,” said Kyle Harrison Breitkopf. There wasn’t any information, or any reason for that matter, of why Breitkopf decided to quit. Some suggest it was the tone of the film but others suspect it was all business.
Laugier was able to hint at the film’s current state since Breitkopf’s departure with Screen Daily who reports that Luagier is now shooing in Canada. A couple of neat tidbits that were shared include it being a script that he wrote several years ago.
“It’s a film set in autumn in North America and it’s very linked to a Stephen King-type atmosphere…trying to combine elements of fantasy/suspense with real people – the social Americana – you typically find in Stephen King’s books.”
It’s unknown who will replace his role or if there will be re-shoots but one can only hope they do so. It’s kind of expensive when an actor walks out like that. Will this be detrimental to THE TALL MAN? We’ll see within the coming weeks as shooting continues.
Set in the town of Cold Rock, The Tall Man is a story of the haunting secrets that hide behind closed doors. With children gone missing over the years, leaving neither a clue nor a witness, superstitious locals talk of ‘The Tall Man,’ a legendary, mysterious dark figure who takes children away never to be seen again. When a woman’s son is taken, the chase is on and with it the quest for answers: Who is the Tall Man, and what happens to the children?
THE TALL MAN is being directed by Pascal Laugier (MARTYRS) and stars Jessica Biel (Below), Teach Grant, William B. Davis, Samantha Ferris and Jodelle Ferland.
Source:
Screen Daily
More Horror Movie News
John Carpenter says he would “love to direct again,” but will we ever see another movie from the great filmmaker?
Ryan Coogler and Michael B. Jordan share a creepy clip from their vampire movie Sinners
Lee Cronin’s The Mummy adds Laia Costa to the cast
Drop: Blumhouse, Platinum Dunes, Christopher Landon thriller gets a new trailer ahead of April release
View All
About the Author
Moises Hernandez
259 Articles Published
Latest Horror News
Horror Movie News
John Carpenter says he would “love to direct again,” but will we ever see another movie from the great filmmaker?
It’s been 15 years since the last John Carpenter movie, but the genre master says “directing is the love of my life.”
March 25th 2025, 7:26pm
JoBlo Originals
Crystal Lake: Everything We Know About the New Friday the 13th Series (Linda Cardellini is Pamela Voorhees)
Arrow in the Head has put together a list of Everything We Know About Crystal Lake, the new Friday the 13th TV series!
March 25th 2025, 5:46pm
Horror Movie News
Ryan Coogler and Michael B. Jordan share a creepy clip from their vampire movie Sinners
Ryan Coogler and Michael B. Jordan introduce a creepy clip from their vampire movie Sinners, coming to theatres in April
March 25th 2025, 3:41pm
Horror Movie News
Lee Cronin’s The Mummy adds Laia Costa to the cast
Laia Costa has joined Jack Reynor in the cast of The Mummy, from Evil Dead Rise writer/director Lee Cronin
March 25th 2025, 1:01pm
Horror Movie News
Drop: Blumhouse, Platinum Dunes, Christopher Landon thriller gets a new trailer ahead of April release
The thriller Drop, starring Meghann Fahy and Brandon Sklenar, gets a new trailer ahead of its April theatrical release
March 25th 2025, 11:44am
Horror Movie News
Final Destination: Bloodlines trailer brings Death to a family get-together
A full trailer has been released for the long-awaited horror sequel Final Destination: Bloodlines, which reaches theatres in May
March 25th 2025, 11:28am
Horror Movie News
Halloween Store adds Anthony Michael Hall, Lindy Booth, Thomas Dekker, Grace Van Dien, and more to the cast
The cast of the horror comedy Halloween Store includes Anthony Michael Hall, Lindy Booth, Grace Van Dien, Thomas Dekker, and more
March 25th 2025, 11:18am
Horror Movie News
We’re Here for the Krites: The Making of Critters book takes a 339 page dive into the Critters franchise
The 339 page book We’re Here for the Krites: The Making of Critters, by Matthew C. DuPée, takes a look at the Critters franchise
March 25th 2025, 10:58am
Horror Movie News
Sinners: Ryan Coogler, Michael B. Jordan horror film gets another poster, invites viewers to dance with the devil
Sinners, the horror film from Ryan Coogler and Michael B. Jordan, has unveiled another poster ahead of its April release
March 25th 2025, 10:34am
Horror Movie News
Jimmy Smits and John Lithgow are back for Dexter: Resurrection
Jimmy Smits and John Lithgow will be reprising their Dexter roles of Miguel Prado and Arthur Mitchell in Dexter: Resurrection
March 25th 2025, 10:18am
Load more articles
Trending
Death of a Unicorn Review: Falls flat as a satire but has some fun unicorn carnage
Linda Cardellini has officially signed on to star in the Friday the 13th series Crystal Lake
Jack Reynor to star in Lee Cronin’s The Mummy
Clown in a Cornfield slasher movie unveils a full trailer
Final Destination: Bloodlines trailer brings Death to a family get-together
Horror Merch
Top 10 Movies
Mission: Impossible - The Final ReckoningThe Accountant 2HavocSinnersA Minecraft MovieJurassic World: RebirthThe Fantastic Four: First StepsSupermanThunderboltsA Working Man
Popular
The Fly – WTF Happened to This Adaptation?
Paranormal Activity 2 (2010) – What Happened to This Horror Movie?
Prey (2022) – What Happened to This Sci-Fi Horror Movie?
RoboCop 3 (1993) – What Happened to This Sci-Fi Action Movie?
Sphere (1998) – WTF Happened to This Adaptation?
Horror TV Shows We Miss – Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles
youtube
facebook
instagram [#167]
Created with Sketch.
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
Links
Shopping
Some images sourced from
TMDB
© 1998 - present JoBlo Media Inc., All Rights Reserved | JoBlo® is a trademark of JoBlo Media Inc.
All movie titles, pictures, etc... are registered trademarks and/or copyrights of their respective holders
Privacy Manager
It's quick and easy to login and vote!
Continue with Google