Home | Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County
Skip to main content
Upcoming Events
View EventWoodson Regional Library Resource FairWed, Apr 16 2025, 12
- 2pm
We're heading to Woodson Regional Library for a resource fair! Come out to learn more about case lookup, paying fines & fees online, eFiling, and gather important resources to help navigate Cook County's justice system.
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2025
Effective January 1, 2025, Public Act 103-671 and Senate Bill 0688 requires the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County to collect and remit to the Cook County Sheriff’s Office five dollars ($5.00) for each party at the time of civil filings where private process service is utilized for any summons or alias summons. For cases that utilize the Sheriff’s Office for service of process, the Sheriff’s Office will deduct the five dollars ($5.00) from the total cost of service charged for each party at the time the service of summons is paid for and issued for service.
×
NOTICE:
The next Public Hearing of the Supreme Court Rules Committee will be held on April 23, 2025 at 222 North LaSalle Street, 13th Floor, Chicago, Illinois, 60601, beginning at 10:00 a.m.  The Agenda can be found here: Supreme Court Rules Committee Public Hearings and the proposals are available on the Illinois Supreme Court’s website at: Supreme Court Rules Committee Public Hearings.  To obtain hard copies of the proposals by U.S. mail, please contact the Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts at (312) 793-3250 or RulesCommittee@illinoiscourts.gov
×
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County
Need Language Services?
Open Search box
×
Main navigation
☰
General
Biography
Legal Notices
Employment
Archives
Feedback
Official Court Holidays and Calendars
Inspector General
Director of Compliance
Human Resources and Shakman Documents
Divisions
Chancery Division
Civil Appeals Division
Civil Division
County Division
Criminal Department
Criminal Division
Domestic Violence Division
Juvenile Justice and Child Protection Division
Law Division
Domestic Relations Division
Probate Division
Traffic Division
Suburban Districts
Court Services
General Information
CCC Portal Case Look Up
On-line Case Information
Illinois Supreme Court Forms
Circuit Court Zoom Information
E-Plea/E-Pay for Court Diversion
Cook County Circuit Court Forms
On-line Payment for Court Fines and Fees
E-File Illinois
E-Appeals Filings
Self Help
Resources
Brochures
Pro Se/ Self-Represented Litigant Center
Emergency Orders of Protection
Direct Dial to Court
Media
News
Press Contact
Events
Contact Us
CUSTOMER SERVICE CALL CENTER
DIVISIONS AND LOCATIONS
Have A Comment
CONTACT US
Cook County's Front Door to the Justice System    READ MORE ABOUT THE HONORABLE CLERK MARIYANA T. SPYROPOULOS
Top Services          Case Lookup  Public online case information for general status of historic and active court cases        Customer Service Survey  Tell Us What You Think & Help the Clerk's Office Improve Service       Pay Tickets & Fines  Information to pay court fines and fees, including Traffic Court Diversion and Traffic Safety School       E-File Illinois  Information on electronic filing (eFile) Service Providers and to begin the eFile process         CC Portal Case lookup  Access for Justice Partners and Attorneys to case management information           Divisions  View the Divisions and Districts within the Circuit Court                Call Center  Access information about our Call Center and contact number           Forms  Access current forms for use with the Circuit Court of Cook County
Upcoming Events
View EventWoodson Regional Library Resource FairWed, Apr 16 2025, 12
- 2pm
We're heading to Woodson Regional Library for a resource fair! Come out to learn more about case lookup, paying fines & fees online, eFiling, and gather important resources to help navigate Cook County's justice system.
View All Events Here
Mission StatementThe Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County strives to serve the public with excellence. Our goal is to provide efficient, transparent, and technologically advanced court services to all participants in the judicial system, ensuring equal access to justice for all. Our dedicated workforce reflects the diversity of our communities and is committed to delivering exceptional service and upholding the integrity of the judicial process.
Chat live with a Clerk
Have questions? Our real-time chat function connects you directly with our team. We're here to help during our office hours: Monday - Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Live chat
As a user of Live Chat, you understand and agree to our Privacy Policy  and Terms and Conditions. Message and data rates may apply. Unlawful or prohibited use of Live Chat such as, but not limited to, abusive, threatening, harassing, offensive, obscene, and pornographic posts, may be punishable under the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012.
I understand and agree.
Launch chat
Footer
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
facebook
instagram
twitter
youtube
linkedin
© Copyright 2025, Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County.
Mariyana T. Spyropoulos
Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County
50 W. Washington, Suite 1001
Chicago, Illinois 60602-1305
(312) 603-5030