John A Macdonald
Tweet this page
share on Facebook
Tuesday, 25 March 2025
News
Politician
Jobs Work online from anywhere in the world
John A. Macdonald
Quotes
Bing
John A. Macdonald
Sir John Alexander Macdonald GCB KCMG PC PC QC (11 January 1815 – 6 June 1891) was a Canadian politician and Father of Confederation who was the first Prime Minister of Canada (1867–1873, 1878–1891). The dominant figure of Canadian Confederation, he had a political career which spanned almost half a century.  He drank heavily, and in 1873 was voted out during the Pacific Scandal, in which his party took bribes from businessmen seeking the contract to build the Pacific Railway.  Macdonald's greatest achievements were building and guiding a successful national government for the new Dominion, using patronage to forge a strong Conservative Party, promoting the protective tariff of the National Policy, and building the transcontinental Canadian Pacific Railway. Economic growth was slow during his years in office, as Canada verged on stagnation; many residents migrated to the fast-growing United States. He fought to block provincial efforts to take power back from Ottawa.  His most controversial move was to approve the execution of Métis leader Louis Riel for treason in 1885; it permanently alienated the Francophones who saw themselves humiliated.
Read more
This page contains text from Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia -	https://wn.com/John_A._Macdonald
Podcasts:
Famous quotes by John A. Macdonald:
"It must be an independent House, having a free action of its own, for it is only valuable as being a regulating body, calmly considering the legislation initiated by the popular branch, and preventing any hasty or ill considered legislation which may come from that body, but it will never set itself in opposition against the deliberate and understood wishes of the people."
"a relapse into barbarism."
Email this Page
Play all in Full Screen
Show More Related Videos
back
Most Related
Most Recent
Most Popular
Top Rated
expand screen to full width
repeat playlist
shuffle
replay video
clear playlist
restore
images
list
PLAYLIST TIME:
Latest News for: john a macdonald
Edit
John MacDonald: One stadium, one ticket price
NewstalkZB
25 Mar 2025
Even though I live in Christchurch and pay rates in Christchurch, you’re not going to hear me saying that I should pay less to get into the new One NZ Stadium when it opens next year ... Locals get cheapie deals there ... But that horse has bolted ... .
Edit
John MacDonald: Meth use doubles and here's what needs to happen
NewstalkZB
25 Mar 2025
I’ve never used meth. And I hope I never do. &nbsp;. I say “hope” because I think that’s as certain as you can be about a drug like that.   ...   ...   ...   ...    ... Absolutely nothing ...    ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ... .
Edit
How well do you know your federal election history?
Toronto Sun
24 Mar 2025
Enraged at being called a liar by his Liberal opponent in his Kingston constituency in the 1872 election, Macdonald physically attacked candidate John Carruthers ... Macdonald, Sir John Abbott, Sir John ...
Edit
John MacDonald: Are we really that scared of saying what we think?
NewstalkZB
24 Mar 2025
At the same time as Winston Peters is declaring war on wokeism, we’ve got a Christchurch community board member saying we are too scared to say things these days in case we offend people. &nbsp; ...   ...   ... The language we use ...   ...   ...   ... .
Edit
John & Paul: A Love Story in Songs by Ian Leslie review – let it be the new gold standard in Beatles studies
The Observer
23 Mar 2025
At its centre is the songwriting partnership of John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and the unprecedented peaks the two of them scaled in remaking English popular music ... Paul McCartney and John Lennon photographed in 1963 ... John & Paul.
Edit
John MacDonald: How to honour Chch Cathedral's past without being stuck in it
NewstalkZB
21 Mar 2025
Here's an idea that I’m quite excited about. &nbsp;. It’s quite raw – it only occurred to me at about 5.30 this morning. But I reckon it could be a solution to something that has gone on for way too long, with no sign of it ending.   ...    ... .
Edit
Lanterns Has Cast Another Important Character In John Stewart’s Life, And It Has Me More Excited About What’s Ahead For The Popular Green Lantern
Cinema Blend
21 Mar 2025
After all, the show’s premise sees John and Hal investigating a murder in Nebraska, and this will lead them to cross paths with characters like Kelly Macdonald’s Kerry, Garret ...
Edit
Proposed Joe Milton trade sends young quarterback to retooling NFC playoff contender
Sportingnews
21 Mar 2025
Instead of going into the 2025 season with Smith, Seahawks general manager John Schneider and head coach Mike Macdonald decided to ship their quarterback to the Las Vegas Raiders for a third-round pick (No. 92 overall) in the upcoming NFL draft ... .
Edit
John MacDonald: An apprenticeship is anything but second-best
NewstalkZB
19 Mar 2025
I always have and always will be a huge fan of on-the-job training. Which is why I think it’s brilliant that we’ve got an education expert saying today that the apprenticeship system needs an overhaul. &nbsp; ...    ...   ...    ...   ... .
Edit
John MacDonald: What's so bad about political parties having a go at council elections?
NewstalkZB
18 Mar 2025
David Seymour says the ACT Party wants to put up candidates in this year’s local body elections because “it’s time for a clean-out”. Whatever his motivation is, I think his plan to get ACT involved in local councils is a good thing ... &nbsp; ...   ... .
Edit
Tragic WWII sailors honoured after 85 years: Names of 190 seamen who died when Navy ...
The Daily Mail
18 Mar 2025
Steward John W ANDREW ... Petty Officer Cook (Officer’s) John L GIBSON ... Stoker 1st Class John W HANNAH ... Able Seaman John N HYDE ... Signalman John KEIGHRON ... Lieutenant John LOVEDAY ... Able Seaman Hector MACDONALD ... Able Seaman John D MACLEOD.
Edit
Controversial Proposal to Annex Canada Raises Important Questions About the 25th Amendment
The Sentinel Newspaper
18 Mar 2025
Constitution ... What’s Going On? ... The 25th Amendment Explained ... The Importance of Clarity ... Additionally, Sir John A. Macdonald, a prominent figure in Canadian history, feared American influence and took steps to strengthen Canadian nationalism ... ....
Edit
John MacDonald: We shouldn't be in the dark to the reality of bullying
NewstalkZB
16 Mar 2025
Isn't it crazy that schools don't have to report how much bullying is going on?. The Chief Children's Commissioner thinks so too, which is why she’s saying that it should be mandatory for schools to provide regular, publicly-available numbers ... I know ... .
Edit
Legendary Newcastle striker Malcolm 'Supermac' Macdonald shares an afternoon of tales and ales with CRAIG ...
The Daily Mail
15 Mar 2025
It was in 1975 that Malcolm Macdonald ran 100 metres in 10.9 seconds ... Former striker Malcolm Macdonald, nicknamed Supermac, is a Newcastle United legend ... Macdonald (right) pictured reminiscing over a beer with journalist and old friend John Gibson.
Edit
Lanterns Cast Adds Jason Ritter, DCU Character Revealed
Coming Soon
14 Mar 2025
It will see Kyle Chandler play Hal Jordan and Aaron Pierre portray John Stewart, while Kelly Macdonald is also playing a sheriff character named Kerry ... According to Jeff Sneider’s The InSneider, Ritter has been cast as Macdonald’s character’s husband.
1
2
Next page »
Article Search
search
tools
You can search using any combination of the items listed below.
Language:
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Assamese
Azerbaijani
Bangla
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bholpuri
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Burmese
Cambodian
Catalan
Chinese
Creole
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
English
Estonian
Faroese
Finnish
Flemish
French
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Greenlandic
Gujarati
Haitian
Hausa
Hebrew
Hindi
Hungarian
Icelandic
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Korean
Kurdish
Kurdish Kurmanji
Kyrgyz
Latvian
Lithuanian
Macedonian
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Marathi
Moldovan
Montenegrin
Nepali
Norwegian
Oriya
Ossetic
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Romansh
Russian
Rwandan
Scottish Gaelic
Serbian
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Swahili
Swedish
Tagalog
Tamil
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Visayan
Welsh
Zulu
Sort:
Most relevant first
Oldest first
Newest first
Indexed:
last three days
last three weeks
Search:
expression in headline and text
all of the words
any word in the headline
boolean
exact string in headline or text
any of the words
all words in the headline
Duplicates:
filter
show
EXPLORE WN.com
Advanced Search
Education
Cities.com
Dubai.com
TravelAgents.com
Weather
World Photos
Cheese.com
Broadcasts.com
Metas.com
Students.com
Emissions.com
Population.com
Domaines.com
Wages.com
Help |
About WN |
Privacy Policy |
Contact |
Feedback |
Jobs |
Students |
Email this page |
Newsletter |
© WN 2025 All Rights Reserved, World News Inc
Connect:
×
×
×
Share this video with your family and friends
×