Woodling: Jayhawks’ different shades | News, Sports, Jobs - Lawrence Journal-World: news, information, headlines and events in Lawrence, Kansas
newslink
News
Sports
Opinion
Health/Living
Obituaries
Jobs
Classifieds
Contact Us
SUBSCRIBE
March 23, 2025
|
Today's Paper
|
Submit News
|
Subscribe Today
|
Woodling: Jayhawks’ different shades
News
Feb 19, 2008 - 12:00am
Chuck Woodling
Pink, blue, red, white and yellow.
What’s the significance of those five colors? Well, they’ve all been on uniforms donned by Kansas University’s basketball teams.
If you were in Allen Fieldhouse on Sunday afternoon, you saw the KU women decked out in pink togs to help raise awareness of breast cancer.
White is, of course, the standard home uniform and blue the common road uniform. And you’ve seen red – or to be true to the school colors, crimson – uniforms from time to time.
But what’s this about yellow? Why in the world would a KU basketball team put on amber uniforms?
Much ado was made Saturday of the 20th anniversary of Kansas’ 1988 NCAA men’s basketball championship, as it should have been. That Cinderella squad wasn’t the only KU team, as you know, to capture the NCAA title – Kansas also won in 1952 – but it did have a singular distinction.
Yes, the 1988 NCAA champs are also the only KU team ever to put on yellow uniforms.
Let’s backtrack a minute. Two years earlier, at the NCAA Final Four in Dallas, coach Larry Brown opted to bring out crimson uniforms for the semifinal game against Duke.
This was the most talented team in Brown’s five-year tenure on Mount Oread, but after the Blue Devils won he vowed he would never use red uniforms again. Brown unquestionably was the most superstitious coach in KU’s storied history.
So when the Jayhawks’ uniform outfitter offered to provide yellow togs – the color of the Jayhawks’ beak, get it? – prior to the 1987-88 season, Brown was amenable. He thought they looked snazzy. Unfortunately, he hadn’t considered a critical ramification that I’ll get to momentarily.
Brown liked the yellow duds so much he decided not to wait until the postseason. He decided to debut them in an early December road game against Western Carolina. Western Carolina??? In contemporary times, Kansas would play on the moon before it traveled to a mid-major gym, but that was then.
It was a home-and-home deal. The Catamounts came to Lawrence during the 1985-86 season, and KU agreed to go to Cullowhee, N.C., the next year to inaugurate the school’s new arena. However, prior commitments forced a postponement until the following year.
So off the Jayhawks went, eventually arriving after a long flight to Asheville and a tedious drive to Cullowhee where they, without fanfare, took the floor in yellow uniforms. KU won, 68-63, despite surrendering 17 unanswered points in the late going.
Folks back in Kansas watching on television could have cared less about that late swoon, though. All they wanted to talk about were those yellow uniforms.
Why were they miffed? All you need to know is that the school Kansas has been playing forever in a border rivalry also wears yellow (although Missouri prefers to call it Old Gold : whatever that means).
Good thing there wasn’t e-mail in those days, or Brown’s computer would have locked up. But the office phone rang and rang, and the snail mail was copious. Brown realized he had no choice.
“They’ll never be seen again,” he said a couple of days later. “I like them, but they’re history.”
Brown was true to his word. The Jayhawks never wore yellow again that season, and they haven’t since.
KU Men's Basketball
Peterson, Prolific Prep win Grind Session title
KU signee Peterson shines in basketball tournament in Lawrence with KU players, coaches in attendance
What’s next for the KU men’s basketball roster?
KU broadcasting legend Bob Davis, longtime voice of the Jayhawks, dies at 80
Adams’ Achilles injury brings grim end to his KU career, Jayhawks’ season
Photo Gallery: Jayhawks’ season ends with 79-72 loss to Razorbacks
Newsletter
The latest headlines from the Lawrence Journal-World and KUsports.com, delivered straight to your inbox.
SIGN UP NOW!
Contact Us
Staff phones and emails
Submit news
Advertising inquiries
Facebook
Twitter
News
All news
Public safety
City government
State government
Town Talk column
Sports
All sports
KU men’s basketball
KU football
Staff columns
Lawrence High
Free State
More
Submit a vacation hold
Pay your print subscription bill
E-Edition
Weather
Obituaries
Couples announcements
Classifieds
Jobs
Deals
Circulars
Copyright © Lawrence Journal-World: news, information, headlines and events in Lawrence, Kansas | https://www2.ljworld.com | 1035 N. Third Street, Lawrence, KS 66044 | 785-843-1000 | Terms of Service
My account
Subscribe today
News
All
Public safety
City government
State government
Town Talk column
K-12 education
KU
County government
Statewide news
National news
Old Hometown
Sports
All
Sports columns
KU men’s basketball
KU women’s basketball
KU football
KU volleyball
KU Sports
Lawrence High
Free State
Seabury
Veritas
Opinion
All
Letters to the editor
National columns
Local columns
Editorials
Your Turn
Health
Living
Lifestyle columns
Home and Garden
Arts and Entertainment
Food
Photos
Weather
Life Events
Obituaries
Births
Marriages, Divorces and Bankruptcies
Couples Announcements
Real Estate Transfers
Contact us
Phone and email
Submit news
Submit letters to the editor
Submit obituaries and celebrations
Statement of Values
View e-Edition
Subscriptions
Submit a vacation hold
Subscription Online Bill Pay
Missed Paper Form
Advertise
Community Organizations
News from The Chamber
News from Lawrence Public Library
News and Information from the Lawrence Police Department
Classifieds
Jobs
Customer Service FAQ