McGill, NV - 89318 - Real Estate Market Appreciation & Housing Market Trends - NeighborhoodScout
Reports        Match      Match   Discover your neighborhood's best match, anywhere. "Match Any Neighborhood" calculates the Match Level of one neighborhood to another using more than 200 characteristics of each neighborhood.           Create      Create   Select your ideal criteria and let Scout do the rest. The search engine finds the neighborhoods that are the optimum fit to the set of criteria you choose.            Subscribe or Log In                  ×      Cart (0 items)  View Cart      NeighborhoodScout                   SecurityGauge                   Pro-rated Refund-$0.00   Subtotal$0.00    Checkout      Cart            Your cart is empty Looks like you have not added anything to your cart. Go ahead and explore our products to add to your cart to get started! Go to Plans & Pricing                      ×      Cart (0 items)  View Cart      NeighborhoodScout                   SecurityGauge                   Pro-rated Refund-$0.00   Subtotal$0.00    Checkout      Cart            Your cart is empty Looks like you have not added anything to your cart. Go ahead and explore our products to add to your cart to get started! Go to Plans & Pricing
×       Subscribe  or  Log In         Home         About NeighborhoodScoutData     Data Overview   Real Estate   Economics & Demographics   Crime   Public School Ratings   Trends & Forecasts           About Us         Want Our Data?         Who We Serve     Investors   Lenders   Brokers/Agents   Property Managers   Home Buyers/Sellers           Plans and Pricing         Blog         Help         Legal     Terms   Privacy   Disclaimer   Fair Housing
McGill,
NV
This is a small community in a single neighborhood.
As throughout the site, some neighborhood-level data are reserved for subscribers.
×
What do we mean by a neighborhood?
NeighborhoodScout® uses the official government designation for neighborhoods - the census tract.
Census tracts are small, relatively permanent subdivisions of a county that are defined by the U.S. Census Bureau in conjunction with local authorities all across the country to define real neighborhoods that are bounded to contain areas with homogeneous population characteristics (including economic status, lifestyle, and living conditions). Census tracts usually have 4,000 persons, but can range between 1,500 and 8,000 persons. This is the most fine-grained area for which detailed information is made available from the government, to protect the individual privacy of each of us. Because census tracts are based on population, they vary in size depending on the density of settlement. In urban areas, they are small, and in rural areas they can cover an entire small town or even a few small towns in very rural areas.
Since census tracts are subdivisions of a county, we did a spatial overlay of the census tracts onto city and town boundaries using a geographic information system to properly assign each census tract to its appropriate city or town. Then we named each census tract to the local colloquially recognized neighborhood name for that spot (e.g., Boston, MA (Dorchester). If there was not a name available, we named the census tract by the largest street intersection in the census tract (e.g., Worcester, MA (Lincoln St/Plantation St)
Why we don't use Zip Codes as neighborhoods
Zip codes were developed by the Postal Service for the purpose of delivering mail, but were never intended to define coherent neighborhoods. In addition, Zip Codes can have as many as 10 distinctly different census tracts contained within them. When distinct census tracts are blended together in a single Zip Code, the data reflects their average conditions and often gives a false sense of the area. The result is that potentially great matching neighborhoods can be missed, and erroneous matches can also be produced and delivered to you.
Using census tracts makes great matches possible, and helps people find the areas that are best for them and their families. Because we are committed to providing the highest possible quality and finding the neighborhoods that best meet your criteria, we use census tracts. And, as always, we show you the actual street map of the neighborhood so you know exactly where your best matching neighborhood is located.
CLOSE
×
What is a Condition Alert?
A condition alert is a condition in the neighborhood that triggers an alert. NeighborhoodScout contains condition alerts to highlight conditions that are extreme, whether good or bad. This helps answer crucial questions about the state of the neighborhood being evaluated, such as:
What are the risks of violent crime here?
Is the risk of home break-ins or other property crimes increasing?
Does real estate here hold its value?
Are the trends in local vacancies or unemployment concerning?
...and dozens more.
Information at a glance that you need to know to invest, appraise or finance a property.
CLOSE
Buy Report
Save
×
Log In or Subscribe
Already have an account?
Log In
New to NeighborhoodScout? Create an account to add this page to your saved places.
Subscribe
PDF
pdfDownload
×
The PDF generation has failed
Loading...
McGill, NV
×
Personalize your Message:
Loading
By sending this Report you agree to NeighborhoodScout's
Terms & Conditions
and
Privacy Policy
j
Overview
Real Estate
Economics & Demographics
Crime
Schools
Trends & Forecasts
j
Overview
Real Estate
Economics & Demographics
Crime
Schools
Trends & Forecasts
Overview
McGill is a very small town located in the state of Nevada. With a population of 1,010 people and just one neighborhood, McGill is the 46th largest community in Nevada. McGill has an unusually large stock of pre-World War II architecture, making it one of the older and more historic towns.
Occupations and Workforce
Unlike some towns where white-collar or blue-collar occupations dominate the local economy, McGill is neither predominantly one nor the other.  Instead, it has a mixed workforce of both white- and blue-collar jobs. Overall, McGill is a town of professionals, service providers, and construction workers and builders. There are especially a lot of people living in McGill who work in teaching (18.62%), healthcare (17.19%), and law enforcement and fire fighting (14.04%).
Setting & Lifestyle
It is a fairly quiet town because there are relatively few of those groups of people who have a tendency to be noisy. (Children, for example, often can't help themselves from being noisy, and being parents ourselves, we know!) McGill has relatively few families with children living at home, and is quieter because of it.  Renters and college students, for their own reasons, can also be noisy. McGill has few renters and college students. But the biggest reason it is quieter in McGill than in most places in America, is that there are just simply fewer people living here.  If you think trees make good neighbors, McGill may be for you.
Being a small town, McGill does not have a public transit system used by locals to get to and from work.
Demographics
In terms of college education, the citizens of McGill rank slightly lower than the national average. 15.22% of adults 25 and older in McGill have a bachelor's degree or advanced degree, while 21.84% of adults have a 4-year degree or higher in the average American community.
The per capita income in McGill in 2022 was $35,273, which is middle income relative to Nevada, and upper middle income relative to the rest of the US. This equates to an annual income of $141,092 for a family of four.
The people who call McGill home describe themselves as belonging to a variety of racial and ethnic groups.  The greatest number of McGill residents report their race to be White, followed by Native American.  Important ancestries of people in McGill include  English, Scottish, European, German, and Italian.
The most common language spoken in McGill is English. Other important languages spoken here include  Italian and Greek.
Notable & Unique Neighborhood Characteristics
The way a neighborhood looks and feels when you walk or drive around it, from its setting, its buildings, and its flavor, can make all the difference. This neighborhood has some really cool things about the way it looks and feels as revealed by NeighborhoodScout's exclusive research. This might include anything from the housing stock to the types of households living here to how people get around.
Real Estate
This neighborhood has wide open spaces, few people, and lots of space to stretch out. If you like locations that fit that description, you may like this neighborhood.  Based on NeighborhoodScout's exclusive analysis, with only 0 people per square mile living here, this neighborhood is less crowded than 99.6% of America.
In addition, vacant homes and apartments are a significant characteristic of this neighborhood. In fact, with 31.7% of the residential real estate vacant, the    neighborhood claims the distinction of having a higher vacancy rate than 95.4% of the neighborhoods in America. This can either be because much of the property is seasonally occupied, like in many vacation areas, or that much of the real estate is more permanently abandoned.
People
If you're planning where to retire, the   neighborhood in McGill is a great option to consider. According to NeighborhoodScout's exclusive retirement dream area analysis, it's peaceful and quiet, has above average safety ratings compared to other neighborhoods in NV, offers a wide range of housing options, and has already attracted an enviable mix of college educated seniors. This neighborhood ranks as better for retirement living than 89.8% of the neighborhoods in Nevada. If you are considering retiring to Nevada, this is a good neighborhood to look at.
Diversity
Did you know that the    neighborhood has more Scottish and Native American ancestry people living in it than nearly any neighborhood in America? It's true! In fact, 10.4% of this neighborhood's residents have Scottish ancestry and 10.2% have Native American ancestry.
is also pretty special linguistically. Significantly, 1.0% of its residents five years old and above primarily speak Greek at home. While this may seem like a small percentage, it is higher than 97.1% of the neighborhoods in America.
The Neighbors
How wealthy a neighborhood is, from very wealthy, to middle income, to low income is very formative with regard to the personality and character of a neighborhood. Equally important is the rate of people, particularly children, who live below the federal poverty line. In some wealthy gated communities, the areas immediately surrounding can have high rates of childhood poverty, which indicates other social issues. NeighborhoodScout's analysis reveals both aspects of income and poverty for this neighborhood.
The neighbors in the   neighborhood in McGill are lower-middle income, making it a below average income neighborhood.  NeighborhoodScout's research shows that this neighborhood has an income lower than 81.7% of U.S. neighborhoods. In addition, 6.7% of the children seventeen and under living in this neighborhood are living below the federal poverty line, which is a lower rate of childhood poverty than is found in 59.6% of America's neighborhoods.
A neighborhood is far different if it is dominated by enlisted military personnel rather than people who earn their living by farming. It is also different if most of the neighbors are clerical support or managers. What is wonderful is the sheer diversity of neighborhoods, allowing you to find the type that fits your lifestyle and aspirations.
In the    neighborhood, 35.9% of the working population is employed in sales and service jobs, from major sales accounts, to working in fast food restaurants. The second most important occupational group in this neighborhood is executive, management, and professional occupations, with 33.5% of the residents employed. Other residents here are employed in manufacturing and laborer occupations (22.0%), and 11.3% in government jobs, whether they are in local, state, or federal positions.
Languages
The languages spoken by people in this neighborhood are diverse. These are tabulated as the languages people preferentially speak when they are at home with their families. The most common language spoken in the    neighborhood is English, spoken by 93.0% of households. Other important languages spoken here include Italian and Spanish.
Ethnicity / Ancestry
Culture is shared learned behavior. We learn it from our parents, their parents, our houses of worship, and much of our culture – our learned behavior – comes from our ancestors. That is why ancestry and ethnicity can be so interesting and important to understand: places with concentrations of people of one or more ancestries often express those shared learned behaviors and this gives each neighborhood its own culture. Even different neighborhoods in the same city can have drastically different cultures.
In the   neighborhood in McGill, NV, residents most commonly identify their ethnicity or ancestry as English (27.7%). There are also a number of people of Scottish ancestry (10.4%), and residents who report Native American roots (10.2%), and some of the residents are also of German ancestry (6.2%), along with some Irish ancestry residents (4.5%), among others.
Getting to Work
How you get to work – car, bus, train or other means – and how much of your day it takes to do so is a large quality of life and financial issue. Especially with gasoline prices rising and expected to continue doing so, the length and means of one's commute can be a financial burden. Some neighborhoods are physically located so that many residents have to drive in their own car, others are set up so many walk to work, or can take a train, bus, or bike. The greatest number of commuters in    neighborhood spend between 15 and 30 minutes commuting one-way to work (66.3% of working residents), which is shorter than the time spent commuting to work for most Americans.
Here most residents (79.5%) drive alone in a private automobile to get to work.  In addition, quite a number also carpool with coworkers, friends, or neighbors to get to work (6.6%) and 5.8% of residents also hop out the door and walk to work for their daily commute. In a neighborhood like this, as in most of the nation, many residents find owning a car useful for getting to work.
Real Estate includes:
Average Home Values
Rental Market
Housing Market Details
Neighborhood Setting
Buy Report
Download sample report
Economics & Demographics include:
Lifestyle &  Special Character
Household Types
Commute To Work
Migration & Mobility
Race & Ethnic Diversity
Employment Industries & Occupations
Income & Unemployment Rate
Higher Education Attainment
Buy Report
Download sample report
Crime includes:
Neighborhood Crime Index
Crimes Per Square Mile
Property Crime Comparison
Violent Crime Comparison
Buy Report
Download sample report
Schools include:
School Ratings
Schools In District
Public School Test Scores
School District Enrollment
Educational Expenditures
Buy Report
Download sample report
Trends & Forecasts include:
Potential & Past Appreciation
Home Value Trends & Forecast
Key Price Drivers
ScoutVision® Proximity Index
Real Estate Trends
Crime & Trends Forecast
Education & Economic Trends
Population Trends
Buy Report
Download sample report
Popular real estate
nearby
comparable neighborhoods
nearby
×
Comparable Neighborhoods Nearby
SCOUT’s patented match algorithm identifies the most similar neighborhoods to a subject location, and quantifies the similarity to the subject location.  This allows analysts to identify the most similar neighborhoods in a local market area for appraisals, investments, and research.
The algorithm uses 273 neighborhood conditions, identifies the dominant dimensions underlying the conditions and calculates the similarity.  This captures the true culture and character of locations, economic conditions, and trends.
The closer to 100% means the locations are nearly identical.  80% is a very good, but not excellent match, and so forth.
CLOSE
58%
Match ‐
Ely, NV (Lund / Ruth)
51%
Match ‐
Ely, NV (Baltimore Mill / Calumet)
48%
Match ‐
Wells, NV
44%
Match ‐
Hinckley, UT
40%
Match ‐
Mona - Levan, UT
About
Help
Terms
Plans and Pricing
Sitemap
Privacy
Press
Disclaimer
Fair Housing
Copyright © 2000-2025 Location Inc®. All the trademarks displayed on this page are the property of Location, Inc®. The NeighborhoodScout® search engine is covered under US Patents No. 7,043,501 and 7,680,859. Our nationally-comparable school ratings are covered under US Patent No. 8,376,755. Other US patent applications are currently pending.