Lowry Wong, DDS - Home
﻿
Lowry Wong, DDS
"High in Quality .... Gentle in Care"
Lowry Wong, DDS"High in Quality .... Gentle in Care"
Lowry Wong, DDS   Welcomes You
Welcome to the dental office of Lowry Y Wong, DDS, conveniently located in the Bixby Knolls area of Long Beach, California.
Dr. Lowry Wong has provided outstanding dental care to the Long Beach, Lakewood, Carson , and Compton areas for the past 20 years. Dr. Wong and his staff  continuously strives to provide every
patient who walks through the door with the same high standard of care.
We recognize that each patient has different needs and desires, and believe in developing a partnership with every patient in order to provide quality, personalized care.
We work with each patient to establish a treatment plan that will best fit their lifestyle and budget.
About the practice
We want you to feel at home when you visit us. Our team has created a soothing, comfortable environment where your needs will always come first. So, come in, relax, and know that your smile is in
good hands.
Our office is using digital xray, digital impressions and digital records.  We are also use an extraoral camera to aid in visualization.   These all provide the benefits of :
Reduced exposure to radiation
More accurate diagnosis
Shorter waiting time
Digital impressions in most cases- no more goopy materials to gag on
Better understanding of treatment through visual imaging.
more
Treatments
For a lifetime of healthy teeth: We offer a wide range of dental services.
more
LANGUAGES SPOKEN HERE:
English and Spanish
HomeAbout our PracticeOur TeamOffice InformationFormsTreatmentsHow to Find Us
CALL TO MAKE AN APPOINTMENT  Phone
562 426-6594
E-mail
lywongdds@gmail.com
Address
Lowry Wong, DDS
4647 Long Beach Blvd
Suite A-1
Long Beach, CA 90805
Consultation hours
Monday thru Thursday
9 am to 6 pm
Fri  by appointment only
Outside our regular business hours, please note our emergency care information.
Dr. Lowry Wong is a member of:
Print                 |
Sitemap
© Lowry Wong, DDS
This website was created using IONOS MyWebsite.
Logout |
Edit page