Denver Broncos: Oakland Raiders Rivalry Should Be Much Different This SeasonBleacher ReportNFL HomeTeamsDraftRumorsScoresFantasy01:49Featured VideoWill Browns Turn Franchise Around?NFLDenver Broncos: Oakland Raiders Rivalry Should Be Much Different This SeasonRyan CookJun 4, 2018One day soon, when the lockout actually wants to cooperate—and you  know, when we actually have a season to look forward to—maybe then this Broncos vs. Raiders thing will actually matter.Maybe then, it could actually match that of the Packers vs. Bears rivalry that the NFL constantly salutes—when Brett Favre is out of the  picture, of course.Or maybe then, it could even match that of the  Patriots vs. Jets rivalry that basically brings a week full of  dazzling Rex Ryan quotes, and a stern Bill Belichick that seems unfazed  by it all.TOP NEWSReport: Russell Wilson, Giants Agree to Contract Worth Up to $21M Amid Rodgers RumorsBleacher Report1h1 Trade Each NFL Contender Should Consider to Fill Biggest WeaknessBleacher Report13hNFL Rumors: DK Metcalf Didn't Want Patriots Trade Before Seahawks-Steelers DealBleacher Report3hBroncos and Raiders fans certainly do live in hope.But for now, Oakland vs. Denver is pretty insignificant. In fact,  it's so fragile that I'm not even sure it can be called a rivalry  anymore. Really, it's more like a game between two sponges with a few  star players on either side. And in the end, both pots are probably a  little guilty of calling the kettle black. Or at least that's how the  rest of the AFC sees it anyway.Don't get me wrong, though, last year's games between Denver and  Oakland were fun. Historically, they always have been. It was cute to  watch Jason Campbell suit up in his first rivalry game and play for 202  yards and two touchdowns in a 59-14 win at Mile High. And it was just as  fun seeing Tim Tebow make his first real start for the Broncos, even  if he looked more like a running back in disguise, rather than the  skilled quarterback the Broncos thought they were getting.Yeah, he fooled Pat Bowlen alright.But there's been a lot of tedious, repetitive and boring moments for  Broncos fans to endure recently. Come to think of it, most are immune to  it now. Josh McDaniels was holding on tight when the Broncos failed to  show up in Week 7's snoozefest. So was Knowshon Moreno, and just about  every defender who allowed Darren McFadden to score three touchdowns and  rush like he'd just gotten off the subway.Then again, it's probably no consolation either that the Chiefs are perhaps a step above each team right now.But something has been missing in this rivalry for a very long time,  though: skill—or at least some form of talent that isn't named Nnamdi  Asomugha. It's something that the Packers and Bears can always acclaim  to, just about any day. That's even more true now, since Jay Cutler has  found a comfortable niche in Chicago. And it's something that just about  every rivalry can look forward to, the media and fans too.Except for Denver and Oakland, of course.There is change in the waters though...kind of. Josh McDaniels could  be blamed for that change I guess, and so could Tom Cable to a lesser  extent. Or if you're tired of blaming Al Davis for the Raiders  carousel of problems in the past ten years, maybe you'd like to point  the finger at Oakland's management entirely. Up to you.There are three realizations that Bronco-maniac's should come to terms  with, however. They aren't all good, but they aren't all bad. Yet they  should make this rivalry the least bit meaningful, if it is only  temporary.There Might Actually Be Good Quarterback PlayCan there actually be a balanced performance between Kyle Orton and  Jason Campbell when they meet? Or are we destined for an eternity of one  or the other?It's time for each quarterback to get hip.Campbell officially got the better of the Broncos last season,  easily. He played for over 440 yards, whereas Orton was sacked four  times, and left to wallow on the bench the second time around. None of  that happened because Campbell was lucky, it happened because the  Raiders actually have a great pass-rush, while the Broncos have a  doughnut.But it's leveled up for Orton immensely—not because Brandon Lloyd is  expected to do great things again, but because Von Miller was selected  in the first round. Jason Campbell should have a much tougher time  in the pocket this season, only if everyone on the Broncos starting  roster can stay healthy throughout training camp.The Raiders can counter this added pressure if they want to, though.  That's why Oakland drafted two offensive linemen in the draft.Orton and Campbell also have to watch their back, a lot. Tebow is on  the way if things go pear-shaped this season in Denver, and Campbell  hasn't entirely won the starting job from Bruce Gradkowski, Charlie Frye  or Kyle Boller as long as the Raiders have still failed to crack .500.  Some say it's motivation for Orton and Campbell. Really, it's more of a  reason to perform well on the big stage.No Nnamdi Asomugha, MaybeHere's one problem if you're a Raiders fan: Nnamdi Asomugha has way too much attention around the league.That doesn't automatically mean drastic change is on the horizon,  though. The Raiders don't rely on Asomugha like other teams rely on  defensive playmakers. The AFC West as a whole is a strategic genius when  it comes to making him a non-factor in games, and that's basically why  he chalked up zero interceptions against Denver last season.But it does mean that the Broncos may at last have some freedom in  the air; good news if you're Jabar Gaffney, bad news if you're Raiders  defensive coordinator Chuck Bresnahan. It's already obvious that Brandon  Lloyd could become Denver's next best receiver threat, but here's the  problem: When you have an insecure quarterback like Orton, taking  Asomugha out of the picture equals a much calmer teammate.There may be no overall benefit for the Broncos even if Asomugha does  wander, however. The Raiders had the second best passing defense last  season, and that's thanks in part to guys like Rolando McClain. This was  also the same team that kept Knowshown Moreno clueless in the backfield  while the passing game was thrown onto center stage; a defensive chore  that has somehow become easier as time goes on.As a side note, Oakland does need to decide on Asomugha pretty soon.  The lockout is a road block, but leaving Asomugha on the free agent list  risks his value becoming stale. There's a lot of teams that won't  engage in a bidding war, especially for a cornerback who is often kept  quiet in games due to strategic reasons. It will interest trigger happy  teams like the Jets, but the free agent market could be quite fickle for  Asomugha.Two New Head CoachesNeither the Broncos or Raiders are guaranteed playoff teams this  year. That's an obvious fact. Sure, it's partially due to youth and a  plate of raw inexperience on each roster, but it's also due to some personnel  changes on the front lines that each team was quick to pursue earlier  this offseason.John Fox and Hue Jackson will both Motorola-up for their first game  as respective head coaches in Week 1. In his first season in Denver, Fox  hopes to bring a new winning attitude to the Broncos, but that's easier  said than done when the team has a quarterback controversy the size of  the entire West Coast. Jackson, well, his job is a little easier. The  Raiders know where they are going, and so do the fans. He just has to put  the pieces together and hope for the best.But as much as I'd like to say both of these coaches will succeed, truth  is, both of these teams will be somewhat different. Fox has left a lot  of questions somewhat unanswered this offseason, and it's likely he will  give Tebow a shot somewhere along the line. That should mean a variety  of play action calls, and a few different rush plays that Josh McDaniels left aside, but we'll leave it at that.Jackson, on the other hand, is a tough call. He's an offensive  coordinator at heart, but on the outside Jason Campbell may not give  him everything. Darren McFadden is one of several runners expected to  lift in 2011, but the wide receiver game still lacks that punch that  would easily elevate the Raiders to the Chiefs level—or at least keep  them on par with the Chargers.No one is really certain on how lenient and tolerant Fox will be  either. During his final year in Carolina, quarterback swaps became  second nature. Yet in Denver, benching a possibly inconsistent player  like Knowshon Moreno leaves the window open for even more hurt. It isn't  likely Fox will become the villain in Denver, either. McDaniels was  good at that. Fox, well, he's loved. And that kind of positive connection  goes hand in hand with John Elway's pursuit for the crown.Broncos Should Be Much More Focused on the PassMaybe  losing to the Raiders twice last season will help the Broncos move  forward even faster, or at least regroup and think twice. OK, so that  theory may be a little out there, but the Broncos draft plan in April  may just indicate a change in progress, if nothing else.Denver  chose two tight ends in the later rounds earlier this year. The chances  of Julius Thomas and Virgil Green seeing serious game time is slim to  nil, but after Kyle Orton showed all the symptoms of a quarterback  missing his best friend—a tight end—expect Thomas or Green to be  thrown in, no questions asked.Last time the Broncos met the  Raiders, Knowshon Moreno was kept quiet. He had just four carries, in  comparison to his Week 7 flop that saw him earn 14 attempts. That, and  the fact that Moreno is still unstable, should automatically mean that  the Broncos have learned from their mistakes. It doesn't mean John Fox  won't rush the ball entirely, however, but it does mean the Broncos will  call on Orton more.Follow Ryan Cook on Twitter or send him an email: ryan.cook392@gmail.com.01:49 Will Browns Turn Franchise Around?TOP NEWS🚨 Giants Signing Russell WilsonBleacher Report1hTrades to Fix Contenders' Biggest Weaknesses 🔧Bleacher Report13hDK Didn't Want Patriots TradeBleacher Report3hFAs Who Signed With Wrong Teams 😬Bleacher Report1dNFL Likely Moving TouchbacksBleacher Report4hTRENDING ON B/RBleacher Report•13hBuying or Selling the Latest NFL Rumors a Month Ahead of the 2025 DraftBleacher Report•13h8 Under-the-Radar 2025 NFL Draft Prospects Who Will Go Higher Than ExpectedBleacher Report•1dTom Brady: Bill Belichick and I Developed 'Natural Tension' by End of Patriots RunTB12 sheds light on 'natural' feeling toward end of Pats run in his newsletter 📲Bleacher Report•1hGiants' Updated Salary Cap, Depth Chart After Russell Wilson ContractFresh look at depth chart after Russell Wilson signing 📲Bleacher Report•3hNFL Rumors: Trey Hendrickson Trade 'Off the Table' Amid Bengals Contract BuzzTRENDING ON B/RBleacher Report•13hBuying or Selling the Latest NFL Rumors a Month Ahead of the 2025 DraftBleacher Report•13h8 Under-the-Radar 2025 NFL Draft Prospects Who Will Go Higher Than ExpectedBleacher Report•1dTom Brady: Bill Belichick and I Developed 'Natural Tension' by End of Patriots RunTB12 sheds light on 'natural' feeling toward end of Pats run in his newsletter 📲Bleacher Report•1hGiants' Updated Salary Cap, Depth Chart After Russell Wilson ContractFresh look at depth chart after Russell Wilson signing 📲Bleacher Report•3hNFL Rumors: Trey Hendrickson Trade 'Off the Table' Amid Bengals Contract BuzzBleacher ReportAboutAdvertiseContact UsGet HelpCareersSitemapCommunity GuidelinesPrivacyCookie PreferencesTerms Of UseB/R Sports on MAXB/R Creators ProgramCopyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.