Watch Entourage Online - Full Episodes - All Seasons - Yidio
TV Shows
Movies
Sign In
Watch Entourage
2004 8 Seasons
8.4  (179,781)
Entourage was loosely based on the real-life experiences of the show's co-executive producer, Mark Wahlberg. This exciting series presented a realistic chronicle of a young actor trying to make it big in modern-day tinseltown.  Vincent Chase, actor wannabe, brings his childhood friends from their collective hometown, Queens, New York, to Hollywood. With single-minded commitment and faith, they struggle together to help make Vincent's dream a reality. Along the way, they encounter the typical obstacles and characters that make the true Hollywood experience what it is.An HBO comedy-drama series, it premiered on July 18, 2004 and ended on September 11, 2011. Largely written by the show's creator, Doug Ellin, it was a well-received series dealing with the strengths and weaknesses of male friendship. For enhanced realism, the award-winning series usually featured one or two prominent guest stars per episode. The stellar guest star list included actors, producers, directors, musicians, athletes and the occasional porn star. There are several conflicting accounts as to who contrived the idea for the show. Wahlberg recalls his assistant being amused by the prospect of filming Wahlberg and his friends. Others insist that it was Eric Weinstein's idea. Eric, a long-time friend of Wahlberg, was the inspiration for "E", Chase's manager. Donnie Carroll, the inspiration for "Turtle", insists it was his idea for a book that inspired the series.While it may be questionable who conceptualized the original idea for the show, the decision to make Chase's character a sympathetic one was unquestionably wise. The reality of Wahlberg and his entourage's youthful past included violence and criminal activity; Vincent Chase's life is decidedly milder. In the end, the decision to go with a lighter, more fictional account proved to be an effective one. The main character was Vincent Chase, an engaging, young "A" list actor portrayed by Adrian Grenier. Kevin Connolly portrayed Eric "E" Murphy, Vincent's manager. Kevin Dillon, real-life brother of Matt Dillon, played Johnny "Drama" Chase, Vincent's older half-brother, also an actor. Jerry Ferrara played Salvatore "Turtle" Assante, Vincent's assistant and driver. Vincent's wise-cracking, high-pressure agent, Ari Gold, was brilliantly portrayed by Jeremy Piven.The show was nominated for and won a multitude of industry awards throughout its eight season run. Additional characters rounded out the show in either supporting roles or cameos. However, the main thrust of the show was the relationship between Vincent and his dynamic entourage consisting of Johnny "Drama", "E" and "Turtle", his closest allies. Their closeness and friendship were the compelling elements. If, as it was noted, the show had just been about three guys benefiting from the fruits of their friend's success, it would most likely have failed. As it turned out, the successful show was syndicated on regular cable TV and has become a top-selling DVD set.
Entourage is a  series that ran for 8  seasons (96  episodes) between July 18, 2004 and  on HBO
Full Episodes
Details
Add to Watchlist
Mark as Watched
Filter by Source
Rent or Buy
Subscription
Amazon Prime
Amazon
Google Play
Apple TV
Stream Now
Do you have Yidio Premium?
No
What are you waiting for?
Try Yidio Premium for Free
Nice! Browse Yidio Premium with Yidio.
Browse Yidio Premium
Ad Info
Seasons
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
8. The End
September 11, 2011
On the series finale, Vince takes a surprising step after his first date with Sophia. Ari and Mrs. Ari have mixed results from their therapy session.
7. Second to Last
September 4, 2011
Vince continues to romance Sophia. The DeLucas fall in love with an expensive restaurant space, forcing Turtle to pitch his investors for more money. Distraught over Sloan, Eric turns to Melinda (again) and the pair crash Sloan's date. Ari makes an emotional connection with the script for Vince and Drama's miner movie.
6. The Big Bang
August 28, 2011
Ari's lawyer gives him some unsettling news about his divorce; Eric is caught off-guard by a revelation from Johnny Galecki, and is shocked by a gift from Melinda Clarke.
5. Motherf*cker
August 21, 2011
Vince takes an interview with Vanity Fair, Eric meets with Melinda Clarke and Johnny Drama is adamant about getting Andrew Dice Clay up to par in order to save his show.
4. Whiz Kid
August 14, 2011
Vince must pass a drug test after he's caught in a compromising position, making Shauna go into damage-control mode. After a session of couples therapy, Ari tries to get back at his wife by escorting an old flame to Bobby Flay's restaurant.
3. One Last Shot
August 7, 2011
Vince offers a fellow addict an opportunity.
2. Out With a Bang
July 31, 2011
Vince's new film turns into a TV movie. Meanwhile, Andrew Dice Clay wants Ari to represent him.
1. Home Sweet Home
July 24, 2011
Vince begins to show interest in a new film. Meanwhile, Scott and Eric encourage Johnny Galecki to sign with their agency.
Description
Where to Watch Entourage
Entourage is available for streaming on the HBO website, both individual episodes and full seasons. You can also watch Entourage on demand at Amazon Prime, Amazon, Google Play and Apple TV.
Genres
Comedy Drama
Cast
Kevin Connolly, Adrian Grenier, Kevin Dillon, Jerry Ferrara, Jeremy Piven
Channel
HBO
Premiere Date
July 18, 2004
IMDB Rating
8.4  (179,781)
All your TV. All in one App.
Easily find what you want to watch.
See it on your smart TV or streaming device.
Stream Now
Ad Info
If You Like Entourage, Then Try...
Californication
Boardwalk Empire
Eastbound And Down
Deadwood
Curb Your Enthusiasm
The Sopranos
True Detective
The Good Wife
Justified
Generation Kill
Six Feet Under
Top TV Shows
Invincible
Euphoria
Win Or Lose
The Rookie
Jimmy Kimmel Live!
Real Time With Bill Maher
The Late Show With Stephen Colbert
Power Book III: Raising Kanan
The Vampire Diaries
Yellowstone (2018)
The View
Also on HBO
Euphoria
Real Time With Bill Maher
The White Lotus
The Wire
Game Of Thrones
Last Week Tonight With John Oliver
Westworld
Band Of Brothers
The Righteous Gemstones
True Blood
Girls
Home
Top Shows
Top Movies
Help
Download App
About
Careers
© 2025 Yidio LLC
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
DMCA