Team ICO Pack – Shadow of the Colossus
Menu
Close
About
Games
Blog
Careers
5
Team ICO Pack – Shadow of the Colossus
09/06/2009
Coming this Thursday to the PSN Store, a set of costumes, stickers and sound effects based on Team ICO’s games; Ico, and Shadow of the Colossus. Yesterday we showed off the costumes for both Ico and Yorda, which makes today the turn of Shadow of the Colossus, and the costumes of  Wander, and two of the colossi Gaius and Quadratus…
Quadratus
Let’s also take a little look at the game that has inspired these costumes, one which we all love here, well except Danny actually, he’s a hater and will be punished accordingly. Oh no, wait a second, he’s changing his story, he just hasn’t played it, and so will be sent home with a copy this evening instead. That’s how we roll.
Shadow of the Colossus
Shadow of the Colossus is a game about a young man named Wander who travels across a vast expanse on horseback so he may battle sixteen beings known as colossi, in order to restore the life of a girl named Mono.
Wander travels on his horse, Agro, carrying Mono across a long bridge into the centre of the forbidden lands, where he comes to a shrine. It is here that Wander meets with a disembodied entity known as Dormin. Wander requests that Dormin returns Mono’s soul to her body, which the entity explains can be done if Wander destroys all sixteen colossi who roam various parts of this land, but warns him that this may also come with a great price.
Using a magical blade, stolen earlier from the land’s guardian, Wander sets about locating these colossi, and destroying them, with each ones demise binging him closer to his goal, but changing his physical appearance for the worse.
Read more about Shadow of the Colossus.
Wander
Gaius
The Team ICO pack will be out this Thursday, stay tuned for more information about the included stickers and sound effects, plus pricing etc. Byeeee.
Tags:
littlebigplanet
dlc
About
Games
Careers
Blog Archive
Press
All content © Media Molecule 2025.
Media Molecule is a SIE Company. Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe Ltd. Registered Office: 10 Great Marlborough Street, London. W1F 7LP. Registered in England No: 3277793.
Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | Cookies and Data Protection