Tonya Hurley
| New York Times Bestselling Author
Home
Books
Press
Appearances
Bio
Contact
FEATHERVEIN will be out in 2021
8.4.2020
Feathervein, a YA contemporary fantasy, follows Wren, a lonely girl with a gift for communicating with
birds.  She leaves behind a fractured family to investigate her mother's mysterious disappearance
on a birding expedition in the Louisiana bayous and enters a world steeped in folk magic.
Praise for HALLOWED
2.14.2016
See what Kirkus, Publishers Weekly, and MTV are saying about the  Blessed series!
Hallowed is Out Now!
7.26.2015
The third and final book in the Blessed series!
Three lost girls, one mysterious boy. They battle for his heart while he struggles for their souls in this gripping conclusion.
Passionaries is Out Now!
1.20.2014
Read the book USA Today hails as a "hot new romance"!
Three modern-day teens have been reincarnated as saints—or so they’ve been told. This dark, thrilling follow-up to Precious Blood blends the gritty with the miraculous.
As we learned in Precious Blood, Agnes, Cecilia, and Lucy “may be saints, [but] they are definitely not angels” (Kirkus Reviews). They watched as Sebastian sacrificed himself for what he believed in, and now they have choices to make of their own. Will the girls trust in their destinies as saints and martyrs and perform the miracles as Sebastian instructed? Or will they lose faith in themselves and each other in his absence? Time is running out for them to make a decision, and the fate of the world lies in the balance.
Precious Blood book cover!
4.8.2013
Last fall, Tonya Hurley released the first book in her Blessed trilogy. For the paperback release on June 25, the first novel in the series is getting brand new packaging, along with a new title, Precious Blood.
Here’s a refresher from the official description: “Agnes, Cecilia, and
Lucy are three lost girls—each with their own personal
demons. . . . These  girls meet one night when they all end up in the
same hospital . . . and each  wake up with a token from a boy they’ve only
just met. Sebastian is  gorgeous, mysterious, and has a plan for all of
them. As each girl gets  wrapped up in finding out just who Sebastian
is, they each discover  their own strengths, and realize the only way to
save themselves is to  save each other.”
Check out the new cover after
the jump.
The Girl's Guide To Saints via Huffington Post2.25.2013
Agnes refused her parents demands to marry at the age of 13,
so she  was sent to a brothel to live out the rest of her days.  As she
walked  along the streets, stripped of her clothes and dignity, her hair
grew  down to her ankles, protecting her from onlookers.
This is not a supernatural tale in the vein of zombies, werewolves,
witches or vampires; this is the story of Saint Agnes, born circa 291
A.D.  Young adult stories are all the rage now with “Twilight” and “The
Hunger Games,” but the first YA stories ever told were the stories of
saints.  It’s rich fodder, and inspired me to write a teen series
reimagining three saints as modern-day Brooklyn teens.
More
Watch the trailer for Tonya Hurley's new novel
10.2.2012
Tonya
Hurley, the New York Times best-selling author of the ghostgirl series,
is at it again with a brand new YA trilogy. The first book, The Blessed (out Sept. 25), is inspired by the stories of three Catholic martyrs:
Lucy, Agnes, and Cecelia.
Here’s the official description: “A re-imagined redemption remix
following three wayward teenage girls in Brooklyn that draws on the
earliest martyrdom legends of St. Lucy, St. Cecelia and St. Agnes, The
Blessed is a dark and gritty supernatural romance that puts an ancient
twist on modern love and relationships. Along with the enigmatic
Sebastian, Lucy, Agnes, and Cecilia are forced to figure out who is good
and who is evil in the battle for not only love, but for their own
souls.”
EW can reveal the exclusive trailer for The Blessed, which was filmed
in Brooklyn’s St. Ann’s Church. Check it out after the jump.
More News
Copyright 2025 Tonya Hurley.  All rights reserved.