FSB Hill 4-11, Obituaries, Ralph Harold Phillips
Remembrances
Obituary
Ralph Harold Phillips
Ralph Harold Phillips, age 65, of Shelby, died Tuesday, September 8, 2009 at Metro Health Medical Center in Cleveland from injuries received in a motorcycle accident on September 2 surrounded by his loving family and lifelong friends. We have lost our father, grandfather, brother, uncle, business associate, employer and loyal friend. To many of us we have lost our hero and our compass.
Ralph was born November 5, 1943 in Norwalk, Ohio the son of the late Florentine "Shorty" and Edith Garland (Featheringill) Phillips.
He is survived by his children: Annette Phillips and Karen Robinson of Cincinnati, Ohio, Angela and Chad Deskins of Franklin, Ohio, Monica Phillips of Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, Kimberly and Chad Leland of Concord Township, Ohio; His former wife of 35 years, Joyce Phillips of Siesta Key, Florida; His grandchildren: Chad Leland, Jr., Austin Leland, Sydney Deskins, Alyssa Leland, all of whom will miss their beloved Papa; his brothers, Virgil and Carla Phillips of Shelby, Dale and Charlotte Phillips of Attica; Nieces and Nephews: Todd (Jennifer) Phillips, Rod Kiser, Theresa (Jeff) Wallace, Tracy (Ben) Patrick, DeeDee (John) Arndt, Marvin (Rachel) Phillips, Doug (Amber) Snyder, Sheila (Bud) Kiskaden; Great-Nieces and Nephews: Nathan Phillips, Brittany Phillips, Ashley Phillips, Terra (Brad) Edris, Derek Kiser, Owen Wallace, Brandon Patrick, Titania Patrick, Corey Patrick, Sarah Patrick, Jesse Phillips, Heather Phillips, Ryan Phillips, Chelsea Arndt, Cheyenne Arndt, Zachary Cundiff, Zoe Phillips, and Zaya Phillips. Ralph was a mentor to many, especially to his great-nephews, Derek and Jesse. Other survivors include: an Aunt: Myrtle (Featheringill) Gray of Tiffin; an Uncle, Dwight Featheringill=2 0of Waterville, Ohio; Also surviving are many special friends including Linda Wills of Shelby along with loyal and dedicated employees and friends too numerous to mention.
He was received in Heaven by his parents, his nephew, Glenn Phillips, his niece, Tina Kiser and his uncle, Stewart Cotner and many other deceased friends and family members.
Ralph was a well-known Shelby businessman. He was the owner of Shelby Welded Tube Company, R. H. Phillips Trucking, Carefree Estates and Storage, R. H. Phillips Farms, R. H. Phillips Equipment and Leasing, Middletown Tube Works in Middletown, Ohio and Dothan Tubular Products in Dothan, Alabama.
He was a member of Most Pure Heart of Mary Catholic Church in Shelby, Knights of Columbus Council #1968, Shelby VFW Post #291- Life member, Shelby Rotary Club where he had 22 years of perfect attendance, was past president, Sergeant of Arms and was a Paul Harris Fellow, Ad Club, Shelby Club, Amateur Trap Shooter Association, Shelby American Legion Post #326, Shelby Moose, Shelby Eagles, AmVets, and the Richland County Republican Party.
Ralph sat on the following boards of directors: Shelby Country Club, Shelby Foundation, Richland County Foundation, North Central State Foundation, REDEC, Community Improvement Corp., Chamber Of Commerce, Kehoe Center and Pioneer Career and Technology Center.
He was a contributor and mentor to the Boy Scouts of America and was a contributor and supporter of the Jr. Livestock Sale at the Richland County Fair and the Att ica Fair, Ducks Unlimited, Pheasants Forever and the Rosebud Indian Reservation in South Dakota. He was an avid hunter, fisherman and sportsman.
Ralph’s contributions to the Shelby community and surrounding area are many. Some of his most recent projects included the development of Technology Park adjacent to the Kehoe Center for Advanced Learning, an ethanol project study, Black Fork River flood control study, and the purchase of the former Shelby Mutual Insurance Building. He sold the building to North Central State College for much less than he purchased it and gave $200,000 to maintain the property. The college turned the building into the Advanced Technology Training Center. He was instrumental in the building of both the Shelby Senior Center and the Phillips Building.
Ralph has had a long affiliation with the Sisters of St. Francis in Tiffin for many years as they were his teachers as a youngster at St. Sebastian in Bismark. After the church closed, Ralph purchased the property and donated it to the community of Bismark and it is now known as St. Sebastian Senior and Community Center.
An army veteran, Ralph proudly served his country during Vietnam as part of E Troop, 1st Calvery, 11th Infantry Brigade, Americal Division 1969. He was the recipient of a purple heart.
He was an employer to many and a friend to all. His presence in the Shelby community will be greatly missed.
Friends may call on Saturday, September 12, 2009 from 6-9 PM at the Turner Funeral Home, 168 West Main Street, Shelby where a wake service will be held at 9 PM. Visitation will continue on Sunday any time after Noon where the family will be present from Noon-3 and 6-9. (The family will host a private family visitation for extended family only on Sunday from 10-Noon). Additional parking will be available at the ArcelorMittal employee parking lot on West Main Street.
Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Monday, September 14, 2009 at 11:30 AM at Most Pure Heart Of Mary Catholic Church, 29 West Street, Shelby with Father Nick Cunningham officiating. Burial will be in the parish cemetery with military honors.
In lieu of flowers and gifts the family suggests memorial contributions be made to: Shelby Foundation, Shelby Senior Center, St. Mary’s Church or St. Sebastian Senior and Community Center % Turner Funeral Home.On-line condolences may be made at www.turnerfuneralhomeshelby.com
(Originally published at Turner Funeral Home.)
Ralph Harold Phillips was a former member of E Troop, 1st Calvary, 11th Light Infantry Brigade during the Vietnam War.  He was part of the first group on Hill 4-11 and was in the middle of "The First Sapper Attack."