History of San Francisco - Boating San Francisco
Skip to content
Menu
Home
Marinas & Docks
Marinas
Yacht Clubs
Guest Docks
Fuel Docks
Boat Ramps
Boatyards
Dry Storage for Boats
Rentals, Charters, & Cruises
Boat Rentals
Fishing Charters
Whale Watching
Yacht Charters
Scheduled Cruises
Scheduled Sailing Cruises
Yacht Captains
Ferries
Kayaks and SUP Rental
Boating Services
Marine Electricians
Marine Mechanics
Marine Woodwork
Marine Surveyors
Yacht Maintenance
Boat Riggers
Propeller Service
Divers
Boat Towing
Sailmakers
Boat Canvas
Signage
Boat Dealers
Sailing Schools
Chandleries
Fishing Supplies
Fishing
Fishing Charters
Fishing Supplies
Good Fishing Information
Blog
Anchorages
Beaches
Exploring
Navigating
Restaurants
Waterfront Hotels
Maritime Museums
Boats For Sale
Boat Dealers
Boat Loan Calculator
Boating Information
SF Bay Weather
Live Ship Positions
SF Bay Webcams
Maritime Law Enforcement
Boat Loan Calculator
History of San Francisco
June 6, 2020November 30, 2019 by Michael Slater
Discovering the Bay
As enormous and glorious as San Francisco Bay is, it is an easy pace to miss. From the sea, the entrance of the Golden Gate is nearly invisible unless you know it is there, even when the fog isn’t obscuring everything. By land, the coastal range makes it remote. Until about 250 years ago, a few thousand native americans had the entire San Francisco bay area to themselves.
Sir Francis Drake missed the Golden Gate when he anchored south of Pt. Reyes, in what we now call Drake’s Bay. The first known non-native visitor was Don Caspar de Portola, who came overland from Monterey in 1769.
European settlement in San Francisco began when Captain Juan Agustin Bautista de Anza led a party up from Montery and chose Fort Point to build Mission Dolores in 1776. San Francisco was a Spanish territory from then until 1821, when it became part of newly independent Mexico.
Even after its discovery, San Francisco remained a remote outpost, reached from the east coast of America or from Europe only after a long passage around treacherous Cape Horn.
The Gold Rush
Everything changed for San Francisco when gold was discovered at Sutter’s Mill in 1848. In 1849, hundreds of thousands of people came to San Francisco on their way to the Sierra Nevada to find gold. In just a few months, San Francisco grew from a mission and a handful of houses into a city of hundreds of thousands of people, lined with wharves. The bay filled with hundreds of sailing ships, the vast majority of which were abandoned as the crew went looking for gold.
San Francisco grew very quickly into a rich and diverse city, fed by profits from the goal rush and, to an even greater degree, by all the businesses that served the community.
Earthquake and Fire
After almost 60 years of wild growth following the gold rush, San Francisco was devastated in just a few hours by the earthquake struck on April 18, 1906. The fire that followed did even more damage.
Some of the links in this article are "affiliate links", a link with a special tracking code. This means if you click on an affiliate link and purchase the item, we will receive an affiliate commission.
The price of the item is the same whether it is an affiliate link or not. Regardless, we only recommend products or services we believe will add value to our readers.
By using the affiliate links, you are helping support our Website, and we genuinely appreciate your support.Related Posts:Sunset Cruise In San Francisco
Categories History of the SF Bay Area
History of Angel IslandSausalito History
Leave a Comment Cancel replyCommentName
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
© 2025 Boating San Francisco • Built with GeneratePress
Privacy Policy - Terms and Conditions
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website
Close