Welcome
| Religious Studies
Skip to main content
Yale University
Open Main Navigation
Close Main Navigation
Religious Studies
Home
Graduate Program
Undergraduate Program
Calendar
People
Faculty Bookshelf
News
Contact
Welcome
The Yale Department of Religious Studies, established in its present form in 1963, is one of the leading scholarly communities dedicated to the study of religion. Our faculty research religions from around the world in an effort to understand the role of religions as social movements, textual traditions, sensory cultures, and arbiters of value.
The Yale Department of Religious Studies maintains strong ties to a number of other departments in Yale College and the Yale Graduate School. Faculty and students in Religious Studies programs are able to take advantage of Yale’s rich resources, including six major research libraries. One of the world’s finest libraries for the study of religion is located at the Yale Divinity School. The Divinity School and the Department of Religious Studies share some faculty, and have strong ties, but are distinct entities with separate degree programs.
The Department is committed to providing a safe, respectful, and supportive environment for all of its students, faculty, and staff. Nothing is more important to the quality of intellectual community we share. The Department takes concerns about misconduct and other forms of discrimination very seriously, and the University maintains a number of resources to address questions concerning them:
Sexual Misconduct Response at Yale
Office of the Provost-Title IX
Office for Equal Opportunity Programs
News
Professor Laura Nasrallah awarded honorary doctorate by University of Oslo
September 5, 2024
Laura Nasrallah, Buckingham Professor of New Testament Criticism and Interpretation at Yale Divinity School, was honored by the University of Oslo with an honorary doctorate...
The scholar of ancient Judaism uncovering forgotten aspects of Jerusalem’s past
August 28, 2024
By Michaela Herrmann
Every year, Yale’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences hires dozens of exceptional scholars in academic departments across the sciences, humanities, and social...
Gene Outka ’62 B.D., 1937-2023
May 3, 2023
Yale Divinity School Dean Greg Sterling made the following announcement today.
——
It is my sad duty to inform you that Gene Outka ’62 B.D., Dwight Professor Emeritus of...
More news...
Yale
Accessibility at Yale ·
Privacy policy
Copyright © 2025 Yale University · All rights reserved
Defining Religion Since 1963
Facebook
Twitter
Flickr
iTunes
YouTube