10 Reasons You Might Not See Zach Parise with the New Jersey Devils Next SeasonBleacher ReportNBAWorld FootballNHLMLBMMA03:04Featured VideoNew York Rangers Top 10 Plays of the WeekPreviousNextKathy Willens/Associated PressNHL10 Reasons You Might Not See Zach Parise with the New Jersey Devils Next SeasonRoman UschakJun 7, 2018Zach Parise is in his seventh NHL campaign with the Devils, and is undoubtedly looking to make up for lost time after missing almost all of last season due to a knee injury. But will the 2011-12 season be No. 9's last in New Jersey?Here's 10 reasons why you might not see him back at the Prudential Center after his contract expires next year—unless as a member of an opposing NHL club.Devils Don't Win Enough in Regular Season1 of 10Mel Evans/Associated PressNew Jersey Devils left wing Zach Parise listens to a question in Newark, N.J., Wednesday, June 13, 2012, as the team packs up for the year. The Devils lost four games to two to the Los Angeles Kings in the Stanley Cup final NHL hockey series. (AP Photo/MeThe Devils missed the playoffs last year for the first time since 1995-96. Granted, Parise missed most of the 2010-11 season due to a knee injury he suffered just before Halloween, but a cold start to the season ultimately doomed the Devils despite their hot finish.New Jersey used to be a virtual lock for the Atlantic Division crown and a top-three seed in the Eastern Conference, but no more.Scoring Is at a Premium with Devils2 of 10Mark J. Terrill/Associated PressNew Jersey Devils left wing Zach Parise, left, tires to get a shot in on Anaheim Ducks goalie Jonas Hiller of Switzerland during the first period of their NHL hockey game, Friday, Oct. 29, 2010, in Anaheim, Calif.  (AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill)Despite Parise's own scoring prowess, including a career-high 94-point campaign in 2008-09, and 341 points in 420 NHL games entering this season, the Devils still struggle to score goals these days. Parise can't do it all himself—and Ilya Kovalchuk hasn't brought about the scoring explosion that some expected when he was acquired from Atlanta in 2009.Not Enough Exposure Playing in New Jersey3 of 10Bill Kostroun/Associated PressNew Jersey Devils' Zach Parise and Travis Zajac, rear, look on during practice as the Devils prepare for the NHL hockey season Saturday, Sept. 18, 2010 in Newark, N.J. (AP Photo/Bill Kostroun)If Parise played in Chicago, Boston, Detroit or even across the Hudson River with the Rangers, he'd likely be more of a household name (and perhaps command more money). He's definitely appreciated by diehard Devils fans, but unfortunately there aren't enough of them in what isn't really a hockey city (and for that matter, neither was East Rutherford).Parise could probably walk down Mulberry Street in Newark—or even other parts of the state—and have few people recognize him in an area that's actually fractured for support among four NHL teams. That's even after his game-tying goal in the gold medal game at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics.TOP NEWSEvery NHL Team's 2025 Toughest Free-Agent DecisionBleacher Report1dNHL Playoff Standings 2025: Predicting Which Teams Won't Make Postseason BracketBleacher Report1dThe Biggest Regret For The NHL's Most Disappointing TeamsBleacher Report1dExpected To Do Too Much on Scoring-Challenged Team4 of 10Christine Cotter/Associated PressThe Devils named Parise their team captain in the offseason, even after he was limited to just 13 games last year. His heart, skill and determination have never been in question—he'd literally skate through a brick wall to get to the puck, and once he has it, he definitely knows what to do with it. Yet after Parise, Kovalchuk, Patrik Elias and perhaps Travis Zajac (who's out injured), how many natural scorers can the Devils count on every game? Parise can't pick up points every night—but when he doesn't, the Devils don't always win.He might simply fare much better on a team with more scorers, such as Vancouver, even if he wasn't the focal point of their offense.New Jersey Wary of Signing Him to a Long-Term Deal Because of His Knee5 of 10Bruce Bennett/Getty ImagesNEWARK, NJ - NOVEMBER 12:  Zach Parise #9 of the New Jersey Devils lays injured on the ice against the New York Rangers during the NHL game on November 12, 2008 at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey.  The Rangers defeated the Devils 5-2. (Photo bDevils management signed Parise to a one-year deal this season, ostensibly to see how he recovers from his injury.Will they still be wary around signing time next year, especially if Parise doesn't produce like he did in seasons past, whether due to his knee or not?So far he seems to be doing OK, with five goals and 10 points in his first 16 games this season.Weary of Devils' Coaching Carousel6 of 10Andy Marlin/Getty ImagesIf you count the now-retired Jacques Lemaire and Devils GM Lou Lamoriello—twice each—Parise is now playing for his ninth head coach in seven seasons with New Jersey under newcomer Pete DeBoer.Like his teammates, Parise would undoubtedly like to have more stability behind the bench, instead of having to get used to someone new—and some new systems—every year or so. Lamoriello, though, has shown no predilection in the past towards hanging onto his head coaches if he feels they're not working out.Devils' Potential Bankruptcy7 of 10USA TODAY SportsMar 16, 2013; Newark, NJ, USA; New Jersey Devils owner Jeff Vanderbeek poses with former New Jersey Devils goalie coach Jacques Caron during the first at the Prudential Center. Mandatory Credit: Ed Mulholland-USA TODAY Sports﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿If the Devils are in trouble financially, as reported in some quarters, how will owner Jeff Vanderbeek (at left) afford to pay Parise handsomely when the latter becomes an unrestricted free agent in 2012? And could the Devils possibly sell Parise off as an asset, if the rumors of financial instability are indeed true?What Happens A.B. (After Brodeur)?8 of 10Andy Marlin/Getty ImagesNEWARK, NJ - DECEMBER 12: Martin Brodeur #30 of the New Jersey Devils is congratulated by Zach Parise #9 after defeating the Philadelphia Flyers at the Prudential Center on December 12, 2009 in Newark, New Jersey.  (Photo by Andy Marlin/NHLI via Getty ImaJust as Parise may not want to get used to another new coach if DeBoer doesn't work out, what happens when Martin Brodeur finally leaves New Jersey, due to retirement, another lockout or moving on elsewhere?Will Parise want to wait for a newer, younger goaltender to develop in Newark while his own career ages? And if the Devils try to sign an unrestricted free-agent netminder like Cory Schneider from Vancouver, will they have enough money left to pay both Schneider and Parise?Devils Might Not Pay Parise All He's Worth9 of 10Bruce Bennett/Getty ImagesNEWARK, NJ - JULY 20: (L-R) New Jersey Devils players Patrik Elias, Zach Parise, Jamie Langenbrunner, Martin Brodeur and Pierre-Luc Letourneau-Leblond show up for a media opportunity announcing the contract renewal for Ilya Kovachukat the Prudential CenteOther players like Elias and Brodeur have taken less money than they probably could have gotten elsewhere in order to stay with the Devils. Will Parise be expected to be any different, even if the Devils haven't enjoyed the success lately that they did from 1995 to 2003, when they won three Stanley Cups?Devils Haven't Been Able To Win in Playoffs10 of 10Jim McIsaac/Getty ImagesEAST RUTHERFORD, NJ - MAY 5:  Patrik Elias #26 of the New Jersey Devils shakes hands with Andrej Meszaros #14 of the Ottawa Senators after being eliminated in Game 5 of the 2007 Eastern Conference Semifinals on May 5, 2007 at Continental Airlines Arena inThis could be the most telling factor why Parise may not be in red and black following this season. Not only haven't the Devils sipped from the Stanley Cup since 2003, when Parise was still skating for the University of North Dakota, they haven't advanced to the second round of the playoffs since 2007, their swan song at the Meadowlands.They haven't won a single playoff series since moving to the Prudential Center, and have won just two rounds in all since Parise joined them for the 2005-06 campaign﻿. That has to be eating at him, and might be the biggest reason he moves on if things don't get better next spring.03:04 New York Rangers Top 10 Plays of the WeekTOP NEWSEvery Team's Toughest FA Decision 🤔Bleacher Report1dPredicting Which Teams Miss Playoffs 🔮Bleacher Report1dBiggest Regrets for Disappointing Teams 😣Bleacher Report1dMarchand FA Destinations📍Bleacher Report13hNHL Playoff Picture 📊Bleacher Report11hTRENDING ON B/RBleacher Report•10hJakob Chychrun, Capitals Agree to $72M Contract Extension Ahead of 2025 NHL PlayoffsBleacher Report•2d5 Landing Spots for Rasmus Dahlin Amid NHL Trade Rumors5 possible teams for the former No. 1 pick defenseman Bleacher Report•1hReport: Russell Wilson, Giants Agree to Contract Worth Up to $21M Amid Rodgers RumorsBleacher Report•13hMen's NCAA Tournament 2025 Power Ranking the Sweet 16 TeamsBleacher Report•13h1 Trade Each NFL Contender Should Consider to Fill Biggest WeaknessTRENDING ON B/RBleacher Report•10hJakob Chychrun, Capitals Agree to $72M Contract Extension Ahead of 2025 NHL PlayoffsBleacher Report•2d5 Landing Spots for Rasmus Dahlin Amid NHL Trade Rumors5 possible teams for the former No. 1 pick defenseman Bleacher Report•1hReport: Russell Wilson, Giants Agree to Contract Worth Up to $21M Amid Rodgers RumorsBleacher Report•13hMen's NCAA Tournament 2025 Power Ranking the Sweet 16 TeamsBleacher Report•13h1 Trade Each NFL Contender Should Consider to Fill Biggest WeaknessBleacher ReportAboutAdvertiseContact UsGet HelpCareersSitemapCommunity GuidelinesPrivacyCookie PreferencesTerms Of UseB/R Sports on MAXB/R Creators ProgramCopyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.