Montreal Impact Release Midfielder Sandro Grande After Choking Incident - Insidemn Soccer
About Us
Team
Corrections
Contact
Home
FIFA
MLS
Champions League
USL
USMNT
Montreal Impact Release Midfielder Sandro Grande After Choking Incident
Brian Quarstad contact
Jul 20, 2009
4 min read
HomeUSLMontreal Impact Release Midfielder Sandro Grande After Choking Incident
ClapClapAnonymous
Share
Reply
0
Montreal Impact Release Midfielder Sandro Grande After Choking Incident
April 25, 2019
Brian Quarstad
Last Monday Inside Minnesota Soccer published photos  taken by photographer Jeremy Olson that clearly showed Sandro Grande of  the Montreal Impact choking fellow player Mauro Biello in an incident  that went unnoticed by video cameras at the game and by the Impact  coaching staff. The incident took place at the National Sports Center in  Blaine, MN when the Impact took on the Minnesota Thunder on July 11.
The IMS story and Olson photos raced across the continent and before
long were picked up by the Canadian press who went directly to Grande
and Biello for statements. Grande stated, “that this sort of thing
happens everywhere in the world.” He also stated that he and Biello were
fine and they would be, “playing together on Wednesday at Rochester.”
In the meantime, IMS made USL and the Montreal Impact aware of the incident.
Grande was of course wrong. It was not something that happens
everywhere in the world and he did not start for the Impact that
following Wednesday.  Montreal suspended the midfielder who had started 9
of 14 games this season.  Grande had also been suspended earlier in the
season for misconduct by his own coach, John Limniatis, who was
released by the organization earlier this season.
Inside Minnesota Soccer again contacted the Montreal Impact and
Senior Director of USL-1, Chris Economides. The Impact told IMS that the
player had been suspended indefinitely. When checking with Economides,
he did not have an official statement but said the league was following
up with Montreal to make sure the proper penalty was assessed. When I
contacted Montreal and asked them why the length of the suspension time
was not announced they did not respond for several days and when they
did just referred to their original press release which was exactly what
I was asking for clarification on.
Earlier in the year,  Charles Gbeke and Wesley Charles, both players
for the Vancouver Whitecaps, came to blows which earned them a
suspension from the league and a fine from the club. So I asked Montreal
why they would not disclose more information concerning their players.
The team never responded.
Today the Montreal Impact released a press statement saying that they have released the 31-year-old Grande nine days after the attack on his fellow player.
“Sandro’s act was completely unacceptable and our
organization does not tolerate such behavior,” said Impact owner Joey
Saputo in a statement on Monday. “We have therefore taken the necessary
disciplinary measures.”“Regardless of the circumst
USL
Post navigation
«  Schwans USA Cup – PUMA v EliteMN Thunder Win 3-0 over Cleveland City Stars »
Brian Quarstad Contact
My name is Brian I have always had a love of soccer since I was 19 and had the fortune to both play and coach in the beautiful game. I live in Minnesota so my main interest lies in the MLS  as well as some of the local leagues, though I no longer contribute to this site.. you can still find some of previous posts here
USL
Other USL News
Sacramento Calls For An MLS Berth
Jun 11, 19
5 min read
Chattanooga Red Wolves Reveal Plans for New Stadium
Apr 30, 19
6 min read
Integrating MLS Reserve League into America’s Lower Divisions – Part 1
Oct 10, 12
27 min read
Peter Wilt Says Indianapolis and Milwaukee Could Be Next Pro Soccer Teams
Oct 4, 12
10 min read
USL PRO Hands Out 2012 Post Season Honors
Sep 8, 12
4 min read
View All
Related Topics
2-YearAtlanta SilverbacksCanadian Soccer Association (CSA)CFUChampions LeagueCollege SoccerCONCACAFEditorialEnglish ChampionshipEuropa LeagueEuropean SoccerFIFAFIFA World CupFlashScoreFMF
About this Column
USL
Related News
Joan Seivold, Breaking Ground in US and Minnesota Soccer
If you ask Joan Seivold, she will tell you she never meant to break records and push limits.  That doesn’t mean she’s not competitive.  Unexpectedly, she nearly got Blake...
Brian
Nov 1, 2019
14 min read
Sacramento Calls For An MLS Berth
Brian
Jun 11, 2019
5 min read
Which club would suit Matthijs de Ligt the best?
Kaus
Jun 9, 2019
5 min read
Toronto FC and D.C. United End in Draw
Edward
May 17, 2019
6 min read
© Copyright 2002 - 2025 Insidemn Soccer.
About Us
Terms
Privacy Policy
Contact
Sitemap
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok