Hoover Dam Tour Company of Las Vegas has tours to Hoover Dam, Grand Canyon and Las Vegas Area
MENU
Home
Hoover Dam & Lake Mead
Mini Bus
Premium Bus
SUV or Jeep
VIP
with Lake Mead Cruise VIP
Lake Mead Dinner Cruise VIP
with Grand Canyon Airplane
with Grand Canyon Helicopter
Colorado Float Trip
Biking to Hoover Dam
Lake Mead Zipline
Airplane Only
Helicopter Only
Helicopter with Landing & Hoover Dam Air
Helicopter with Landing & Hoover Dam Air at Sunset
Private Helicopter Tour
Grand Canyon Tours
West Rim
Bus
Bus with Skywalk
Bus with Helicopter
Bus, Helicopter & Skywalk
Bus, Helicopter & Boat
Bus Do It All
Airplane Air Only
Helicopter Air Only
Helicopter with Landing & Hoover Dam Air
Helicopter with Landing & Hoover Dam Air at Sunset
Private Helicopter Tour
Las Vegas
Las Vegas City Night
Red Rock Canyon
Cannabition Cannabis Museum
Hoover Dam
Museum, movie and exhibits at this Modern Engineering Marval
Lake Mead
Lake Mead activities near the Hoover Dam
West Rim
Home of the Hualapai Indian's Skywalk, hiking, Cowboy Town
Las Vegas
Sparkling lights and beautiful night time sights
Hoover Dam Premium
Only$56.99
Hoover Dam Mini
Only$44.99
Hoover Dam Adventure
Only$104.99
Hoover Dam VIP
Only$94.99
West Rim Bus
Only$114.99
West Rim Skywalk
Only$149.99
Welcome to Hoover Dam Tour Company
Offering great tours to the Hoover Dam, Lake Mead, Grand Canyon and Las Vegas area tours.All great sites to see while visiting Las Vegas!
The Hoover Dam Tour Company offers the Best Dam Tours in Town! We are sure that you will enjoy anyone of the tours we offer. Our Premium Tours include motor coach trips, airplane and helicopter combination tours. We even offer a boat cruise and a float trip that departs from the base of Hoover Dam.
Viewing this magnificent, massive man made structure creates a respect for man's accomplishments. The strong desire to harness nature's power drove the human mind and body to build Hoover Dam in the hottest, driest area of the United States. In doing so, the seasonal flooding of the Colorado River was eliminated and millions of people now have drinking water and irrigation during the dry season.
Come see how the construction men of the Hoover Dam triumphed over environmental and engineering difficulties to complete the monumental task to build the largest dam known to man in 1935.
© Copyright 1998-
Hoover Dam Tour Company, All rights reserved.
About Us    Contact Us    FAQ    About Hoover Dam