Fort Necessity National Battlefield - Uniontown PA - U.S. National Register of Historic Places on Waymarking.com
shop
forums
waymarks
scavenger hunts
groups
categories
profile
home
Home > Categories > Category > Waymark
you are not logged in. [log in]
Fort Necessity National Battlefield - Uniontown PA - U.S. National Register of Historic Places on Waymarking.com
View waymark gallery
Fort Necessity National Battlefield - Uniontown PA
in U.S. National Register of Historic Places
Posted by:  nomadwillie
N 39° 48.944 W 079° 34.983
17S E 621277 N 4408266
Fort Necessity National Battlefield is a National Battlefield Site preserving elements of the Battle of Fort Necessity in Fayette County, Pennsylvania, United States.
Waymark Code: WM74MD
Location: Pennsylvania, United States
Date Posted: 09/01/2009
Published By: silverquill
Views: 8
Download this waymark:
.GPX File
.LOC File
.KML File (Google Earth)
The Battle of Fort Necessity occurred on July 3, 1754 and was an early battle of the French and Indian War.After returning to the great meadows in what is now Fayette County, Pennsylvania, George Washington decided it prudent to reinforce his position. Supposedly named by Washington as Fort Necessity or Fort of Necessity, they constructed a storehouse to store supplies such as gunpowder, rum, and flour. The crude palisade they erected was built to more to defend supplies in the fort's storehouse from Washington's own men, whom he described as loose and idle, rather than as a planned defense against a hostile enemy. It also served as a useful mustering position, situated in a pleasant mountain meadow not far after the summit of the Cumberland Gap mountain pass had been surmounted by westward moving travelers or troops, and Washington was hoping for further reinforcements.By June 12, 1754, Washington had under his command 293 colonials and the nominal command of 100 additional regular British army troops from South Carolina. Washington spent the remainder of June 1754 extending the wilderness road further west and down the western slopes of the Allegheny range into the valley of the Monongahela River aiming for a river crossing point roughly 41 mi (66 km) near Redstone Creek and a mound on a bluff overlooking the river crossing known as Redstone Old Fort — an aboriginal mound structure that may have once been a fortification. Five years later in the war Fort Burd was constructed at the target destination and the area eventually became the site of Nemacolin Castle and Brownsville, Pennsylvania — an important western jumping off point in the late eighteenth century and early nineteenth century.Colonel Washington's chosen path west in order to reach the Ohio River basins' navigable waters as soon as possible on the Monongahela River was along Nemacolin's Trail  — as opposed to following the ridge hopping high altitude path traversed by the western part of Braddock's Road which jogged to the north near the fort and passed over another notch near Confluence, Pennsylvania into the valley and drainage basin of the Allegheny River. The Redstone destination at the terminus of Nemacolin's Trail was a natural choice for an advanced base for the location was one of the few known good crossing points where both sides of the wide deep river had low accessible banks in a region where steep-to-sides characteristic of the Mon-valley were the norm.Late in the day on July 3rd, Washington did not know the French situation. Feeling that their position was untenable, Washington accepted surrender terms which allowed the peaceful withdrawal of his forces which he completed on July 4, 1754[2]. The French subsequently occupied the fort and then burned it. Washington did not speak French, and stated later that if he had known that he was confessing to the "assassination" of Jumonville, he would not have signed the surrender document.Source: (visit link)
Street address: 11 mi. E of Uniontown on U.S. 40Uniontown , PA County / Borough / Parish: FayetteYear listed: 1966Historic (Areas of) Significance: Person, Event Periods of significance: 1750-1799 Historic function: Defense Current function: Landscape, Recreation And Culture Privately owned?: noSeason start / Season finish: From: 01/01/2009 To: 12/31/2009Hours of operation: From: 9:00 AM To: 5:00 PMPrimary Web Site: [Web Link]Secondary Website 1: [Web Link]Secondary Website 2: Not listedNational Historic Landmark Link: Not listed
Visit Instructions:Please give the date and brief account of your visit.  Include any additional observations or information that you may have, particularly about the current condition of the site.  Additional photos are highly encouraged, but not mandatory.
Search for...
Geocaching.com Google MapGoogle MapsMapQuestBing MapsNearest WaymarksNearest U.S. National Register of Historic PlacesNearest Geocaches
Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point
Recent Visits/Logs:
Date Logged
Log
User Rating
06/11/2023
Don.Morfe visited it
09/10/2020
79scouts visited it
06/04/2019
wildernessmama visited it
09/25/2012
Lat34North visited it
09/05/2010
rodneymrtn visited it
08/22/2009
nomadwillie visited it
View all visits/logs
iOS user? Try the Waymarkly app!
Includes the ability to log visits, view logs, save and filter offline Waymarks and use beautiful offline maps! Waymarkly is the premiere Waymarking app for iOS.
Get the Waymarkly app now
Map
Search from Here
Waymark Options
View Visits/Comments (5)View WaymarkView Gallery (14)
Advertisement
Quick Searches
Waymark Searches:
My Waymarks
Featured Waymarks
Newest Waymarks
My Unfinished Waymarks
Waymarks I've Visited
Newest Uncategorized Waymarks
My Uncategorized Waymarks
My Assisted Waymarks
Category Searches:
My Categories
Favorites
Ignore List
Largest
Newest
Requiring Review
Visit Searches:
My Visits
Group Lists:
Groups I Manage
Groups I Belong To
Newest Groups
Recruiting Groups
Scavenger Hunts:
My Scavenger Hunts
Newest Public Hunts
My Active Hunts
My Completed Hunts
Miscellaneous:
My Saved Searches
Full Category List
Copyright (c) 2025 Groundspeak, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
home
|
careers
|
news
|
terms of use
|
privacy policy
|
contact us
|
help