
Olav's Belgian license plates. Visitors' submissions. Number plates of Belgium
LICENSE PLATES OF
BELGIUM (B)
SUBMISSIONS FROM VISITORS
Last updated 10.5.2020
Home
Country index
Belgium page 1
Belgium page 2
Belgium page 3
Belgium page 4
Belgium page 5
Belgium duplicates
Photo from 2008 of a personalised plate. The submitter, who wishes to stay anonymous, says it is a
Senate plate, probably the President of Senate. Others say this is not the case.
Jan Van De Perre submitted these photos of a personalised plate.
Andy Hoppe from
autokennzeichen.info
submitted this photo from 2004. He explains: "I have
seen this Belgian plate lately... It is similar to the plates used for foreign personnel, but instead of
the month and year (inside the ring of yellow stars) it only says "EU - UE". It is possible that this
plate is a new version of the old plates with the blue letters "EUR" (embossed) inside an embossed
circle of stars. Since the plates don't have an expiry date, I suppose it is not a private car of an EU
employee, but a vehicle from an EU facility in Brussels."
Ben, who works for the EU in Brussel, comments: "According to the EU Intranet, officials have three
choices for their number plate: 1. Belgian normal series plate (solution which was not chosen by
most in the old times, but which is now chosen by the majority). 2. "EUR" plate (solution which was
the favourite one of EU officials in the old times but which is now hardly chosen by anyone because
of the supposed hostility of people to EU officials). 3. "International" plate (with blue letters as
submitted by A. Hoppe), I supposed this possibility has been given to EU officials in order to allow
them to have a distinctive plate, but without the inconvenience of having a big undiscreet "EUR"
sign on it."
Ronnald Stannard submitted this photo of a manufacturer test plate in 1997-2010 style. They
were in the range ZZA-001 to ZZZ-999.
Lo van der Reijden submitted these plates. They are all for military personnel stationed in
Belgium and he has used them all on his cars. The explanations are Lo's own words.
1975 SHAPE car plate (SB = SHAPE Belgium), for military working at SHAPE and NATO and for
civilians working in SHAPE. Civilians working for NATO Brussels have a normal Belgian plate starting
with EVN, FVN or GVN.
1991 SHAPE car plate like the 1975 one, but different font of the year.
1999 transit plate, but with a fixed year and a seal for the month of expiring. I got that plate during
my stay at the WEU Military Staff.
2001 a car plate which I got instead of the red transit plate. All military and civilian staff at SHAPE
have a plate like this one. Starting at 900000.
From Blue Bull comes this photo of the euro style front plate of his car.
Patrick submitted these photos of his own and his wife's cars. At first sight the plates look quite
ordinary, but they are in fact personalised. ANN is the name of Patrick's wife. 612 stands for 6th
December, his wife's birthday.
ANN-612 is in the newer style, ANN-789 the older. The main difference is the red seal above the
hyphen.
Top of page
Home
Country index
Belgium page 1
Belgium page 2
Belgium page 3
Belgium page 4
Belgium page 5
Belgium duplicates
Prev <Belarus>
Next <Benin>
Comments or corrections? Contact Olavsplates