Eldred, PA - Eldred World War II Museum - Munitions Plant
Skip to Main Content
RoadsideAmerica.comYour Online Guide to Offbeat Tourist Attractions
Navigation
×
Home
Maps
Tips
Blog
My Sights
Video
Mobile
×
Attraction:
Town:
State
AK
AL
AR
AZ
CA
CO
CT
DC
DE
FL
GA
HI
ID
IL
IN
IA
KS
KY
LA
ME
MD
MA
MI
MN
MS
MO
MT
NE
NV
NH
NJ
NM
NY
NC
ND
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VT
VA
WA
WV
WI
WY
AB
BC
MB
NB
NF
NT
NS
ON
PQ
PE
SK
YT
Mex.
Other
Eldred, Pennsylvania: Eldred World War II Museum - Munitions PlantDedicated to the people who made the bombs that beat the Nazis. Museum features a Rosie the Riveter in stained glass and, outdoors, a tank bursting through the side of the building.
Address:201 Main St., Eldred, PADirections:85 miles south of Niagara Falls, New York.
Hours:Tu-Sa 10am - 4pm Su 1pm - 4 pm. (Call to verify)
Phone:814-225-2220
Admission:Free, Donation.
RA Rates:Major Fun
Save to My Sights
Results 1 to 3 of 3...Visitor Tips and News About Eldred World War II Museum - Munitions PlantReports and tips from RoadsideAmerica.com visitors and Roadside America mobile tipsters. Some tips may not be verified. Submit your own tip.
Eldred World War II Museum - Munitions Plant Don't pass this by. Take some time and go inside the museum. As a matter of fact, be prepared to spend a lot of time there because there is so much to see. In addition to prominent displays dedicated to women service members and those dedicated to supporting the war effort, they also have artifacts that are genuinely disturbing. The gentlemen at the museum are very knowledgeable and provide commentary on the exhibits, or you can view at your own pace. There is no admission fee but my guess is that you'll willingly give them a donation. [Annie, 08/28/2021]
Eldred WWII Museum This is a great World War II museum. Its outside is painted as though a tank is breaking through the wall. Inside there's a Rosie the Riveter stained glass window, and displays of the munitions that were manufactured at a plant in town during the war.
[John M Jones, 08/29/2012]
Eldred World War II Museum - Munitions Plant The British and American munitions plant churned out eight million bombs, mortar shells and fuses during World War II. Fifteen hundred people worked there, 24 hours a day, from January 1942 to May 1945, supporting the war effort. The Eldred World War II Museum opened on Memorial Day, 1996, dedicated to the memory of the local people who worked in the plant and those who served overseas during the war.
[Dale Berridge, 02/27/2007]
Nearby Offbeat PlacesParade of Squirrels, Olean, NY - 9 mi.
Allegheny Arms and Armor Museum, Smethport, PA - 8 mi.
McDonald's Drive-Thru Oil Well, Bradford, PA - 13 mi.
In the region: Lucy Desi Museum and Desilu Studios, Jamestown, NY - 45 mi.
Latest Tips Across Roadside America
Catch up on the latest discoveries from the road.
Explore Thousands of Oddball Tourist Attractions!
Unique destinations in the U.S. and Canada are our special obsession. Use our attraction recommendation and maps to plan your next road trip.
My Sights
Save Cool Vacation Destinations! ...Try My Sights
Mobile Apps
Roadside America app for iPhone, iPad. On-route maps, 1,000s of photos, special research targets! ...More
Roadside Presidents app for iPhone, iPad. POTUS landmarks, oddities. ...More
Pennsylvania Latest Tips and Stories
National Museum of Industrial History, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
Thing Gate, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
National Museum of Industrial History, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
Social Consciousness - Harsh Compassion, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Statue of Chef Boyardee, Milton, Pennsylvania
Latest Visitor Tips
Sight of the Week
National Museum of Transportation, St. Louis, Missouri (Mar 24-30, 2025)
SotW Archive
USA and Canada Tips and Stories
Feature: National Museum of Transportation, St. Louis, Missouri
Santa's Village Azoosment Park, East Dundee, Illinois
Muffler Man and Giant Longhorn, Waukon, Iowa
Automatic for the People Diner, Athens, Georgia
Replica of Michelangelo's David, St. Augustine, Florida
More Sightings
Favorite Quirky City Sights
Gettysburg Attractions
Philadelphia Attractions
Pittsburgh Attractions
Miscellaneous
About Us
Contact Us
Submit a Tip
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Trip Planning Caution: RoadsideAmerica.com offers maps, directions and attraction details as a convenience, providing all information as is. Attraction status, hours and prices change without notice; call ahead!
Credits, Media/Business Inquiries
© Copyright 1996-2025 Doug Kirby, Ken Smith, Mike Wilkins. All rights reserved. No portion of this document may be reproduced, copied or revised without written permission of the authors.