Home %%sep%% International Language Insititute (ILIMD)
<![endif]-->
International Language Institute, MD
teaching english since 1995!
+1-301-527-0600
Go To...
Learn English with ILI
Contact, Address & Hours
Photo Gallery
Teachers and Staff
Employment Opportunities
Terms & Policies
ILI in Washington, DC
English Programs
Intensive English Program (IEP)
Semi-Intensive English Program
Evening & Saturday English Program
TOEFL Preparation Course
Classes for Au Pairs
Private English Tutoring
Corporate Program
Visa Information
Dates
Registration
Housing
Homestay & 4stay
Homestay Application
Payment Form
Study in-person or online with Zoom!
Read More
Read More
Read More
Learn English with ILI
Study and learn English in the U.S.A. at the International Language Institute (ILI, MD) in Gaithersburg, Maryland, a suburb of Washington, DC!  The International Language Institute, MD, is a school for students of English from all over the world. We have been teaching intensive, semi-intensive, community, and private English classes in Maryland since 1995. We have several English as a Second Language (ESL) programs to choose from, including TOEFL preparation. Our English courses are available during the day, in the evening, and on Saturdays. We are located in Gaithersburg, Maryland, which is in Montgomery County and only 15 miles from Washington, DC. We are authorized under Federal law to enroll individuals with a student visa as well as other non-immigrant foreign students.
Our mission is to set a new standard for English language programs in order to meet the growing demands of America’s diverse immigrant and student population. We are dedicated to working together with our students, instructors, and staff to realize our dreams and goals, to assure quality programs, and to surpass our own expectations.
The International Language Institute, MD, was founded in 1995 under the name “English House.” It now belongs to Transemantics, Inc. which also owns the International Language Institute (ILI) in Washington, DC.  We continue to provide the same personalized service to each of our students. We know each of our students well. We care about their lives outside of school, as well as the progress that they are making with the English language. If you are looking for an environment in which you are not just another student coming through the system, but the most important student in the program, you should consider coming to the International Language Institute, MD. We make sure that the needs and interests of all of our students are met. Our classes are small and we are able to respond to the requests of our students on an individual basis. We have warm, welcoming groups of students and staff looking forward to providing you with an unforgettable experience in the United States. Many friendships are made among students, teachers, and staff members that last well beyond their stay at the International Language Institute, MD.
The International Language Institute, MD, programs are accredited by the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training (ACCET). ACCET is a national accrediting agency listed by the United States Secretary of Education.
News Extreme Weather? Is ILI closed? Check here
Classes for Au Pairs: Special Promotion!
Contact icon-phone-square    (301) 527-0600
icon-envelope  [email protected]
Address 26 North Summit Ave
Gaithersburg, MD 20877
U.S.A.
DirectionsInternational Language Institute, MD (ILI, MD)
Copyright @ International Language Institute, MD
Home | Contact Us