History
It would, of course, be wonderful to
learn herein that we Beauregards are nobility -- but
we're not.  The Beauregards of old were mostly
farmers.  Of course today our trades and professions
could not be more diversified.
Dottie & Ray
Beauregard
When Dorothy, my
wife, and I went to France in 1985, we thought that
"Beauregard" was the original family name so we looked
up the name "Beauregard" in various libraries in Paris,
Bourges, and Vienne.   A cousin in Canada had told us
that our Beauregard ancestor came from a place called Roye in the
Diocese of Vienne in the area of France called Dauphiné.  We
spoke to a parish priest in Vienne who told us that we should go
to Grenoble to do our research.  He said that all the
records of that region that were salvaged after the French
revolution (1789 - 1799) were kept in Grenoble.  We did not
have the time to go to Grenoble. On this visit to France, we were
not able make any connection with or find any information about
our Beauregard ancestors.  We discovered, however, that
there was many different regions in France called
"Beauregard."  It seems that places that have a
commanding or panoramic view of an area or are scenic (a
“beau-regard”) are called by that name.  Virtually,
it means nice view, good lookout, or good appearance.
We discovered sometime after we returned to the States that
Beauregard was not the surname of André, the ancestor of many of
the "Beauregard” families, in America. In France and
when he came to Canada, his name was André Jarret. There was a
small area called "Beauregard" in the region where he
was born. However it is possible that André did not use the name
Beauregard until some time after he was granted some islands in
the St. Lawrence River. By an act of concession dated 17 August
1674, Frontenac, the Governor, granted him three islands located
in the St. Lawrence River just to the north of Montreal,, Quebec.
To see the map in detail, click on it... but be patient, this
will take a while to download.
André may have given his land the name "Isles
Beauregard" because of the area by that name near his home
in France or he may simply have liked the beauty of the islands.
The three islands are still there today however; they were
changed somewhat by construction during the St. Lawrence Seaway
project.  The largest of the islands, Isle Ste-Marie, is
still there and appears to be relatively intact.  It is
directly across from the "Parc des Pionniers" in
Verchères, Quebec.  This is the park where the monument to
Madeleine de Verchères, André’s niece, is located.  She
was the French heroine who defended the fort against the Indians
in 1696. Madeleine was the daughter of Francois Jarret de Verchères,
André's half-brother.
As the owner of these islands, he became known as André Jarret
Sieur de Beauregard.  Eventually the name became Jarret de
Beauregard or Jarret dit Beauregard.  According to the very
informative Web
site created by Denis Beauregard, a “dit” name is
an alias given to a family name.  An alias is generally
given to one person.  However in Canada, the dit names were
given to many persons.  It was used to distinguish between
persons having the same surname but coming from different
families, regions, areas, trades, etc.  It appears that the
soldiers from France sent to the Colony were responsible for the
large number of dit names that were used in Québec.   Using
the Denis Beauregard web site mentioned above one can trace the
Jarret dit Beauregard family back to France in the mid 1400's.
Also, the "BOOKS" section of
this site provides more information.
As time went on, some of André Jarret’s descendants used
the name Jarret and others Beauregard.  In doing
genealogical research one finds that the name Jarret was spelled
a number of different ways.  Jarret, Jaret, Jared, Jarais,
Jarry, Charest, and Sharai are some of the variations.  There
are also many variations in the spelling of the name Beauregard.
Apparently the name Jarret was dropped by some of my ancestors
before 1861.  The 1861 census in Canada (HIC 1319 p26) lists
the family of François X Beauregard living in St. Denis, Quebec.
This was Misaël's father, Arthur's grandfather, and my great
grandfather.  It is interesting to note that in the birth
records at the parish Catholic Church in La Présentation, Quebec
my father’s birth on 17 October 1897 is recorded as
"Arthur George Beauregard” and Jared was written in the
margin.
ANDRE JARRET DIT
BEAUREGARD
This is a picture of the Chapeau Cornu castle. If you are
interested in seeing this images in more detail, click on the
small picture.
André Jarret was born and raised in the Rual de Chapeau
Cornu.  This is near the village of
Vigneu.  Vignieu is located in the South of France
between Lyon and Grenoble. André married Marguerite
Anthiaume in Notre Dame church in Montreal on 12 January 1676.
Marguerite was born in 1653 in France.  Her parents were
Michel Anthiaume and Marie du Bois of St. Nicholas-des-Champs,
archdiocese of Paris, France.  Michel Anthiaume was the
"Exempt du Grand Prévôst de l'Hotel de Paris".
This means that he was an officer in the guards of the royal
palace.  When they married, Marguerite had a dowry of 1200
pounds in currency and 1000 pounds of value in furniture, jewels,
clothing, etc.  As this dowry compares favorably to that
brought by daughters of noble origins, it appears that Anthiaume
family had some wealth.
While visiting the Archives in Paris France, I requested a
computer search of the records.  The French officials found
no documents referring to Michel Anthiaume.  However
according to a letter of 24 April 1990 from the French
“Ministère de la Culture” at the archives, he was
probably a member of the Parisian "bourgeoisie"
Anthiaume family .  This family was from either the region
of  Argenteuil or Montmorency, which are just a few miles
Northeast of Paris.
André Jarret and Marguerite Anthiaume had following children:
Marguerite born 14 and baptized on 26 October 1677, Anne born on
13 and baptized on 29 September 1681, Marie born on 6 and
baptized on 20 April 1683, François-Alexandre born on 9 February
1686, Louis born in 1686, Joseph  (my ancestor) born in
1690, and Vincent born in 1692.  The birth records of Louis,
Joseph, and Vincent were lost in a fire and there are no records
of their births or baptisms.
The record of the death and burial of André has not been found;
however from the records found, it appears that André was
massacred by the Iroquois Indians.  We know from the records
that André was dead when his son Vincent was born.   As
was the case for Louis and Joseph, Vincent's birth records were
lost and the exact date of his birth is not known.  He was
said to be 3 months old in April 1692. So he would have been born
in January 1692.  If, as records indicate, Vincent was born
in January 1692, André would have been alive in April or early
May 1691.  From an inventory of André's goods taken by
Bénigne Basset on 12 April 1692, we are told that Marguerite
Anthiaume was the guardian of five minor children: “Anne 10
years old, François 6 years old, Louis, 4 years old, Joseph, 2
Years old, and Vincent 3 months old”.  Thus we know
that André died sometime before12 April 1692.
François de Verchères, André’s half brother, followed a
military career.  In 1691 Frontenac, the governor, assigned
him to serve as Ensign in a company of Canadian troops. This
was after his service with the Carignan Regiment. On this subject
Frontenac wrote:
"The
Sieur de Verchères was formerly an Ensign in the Carignan
Regiment.  Two years ago, one of his son-in-laws was killed
by the Iroquois and this year, he lost another who was taken with
one of his brothers and his son. ...”
The Iroquois killed Jean Duhouet, Marie-Jeanne de
Verchères’ first husband, in December 1687.  Antoine
du Verger d'Aubusson, Marie-Jeanne's second husband, was killed
by the Iroquois on 7 May 1691.  These were probably the two
son-in-laws that Frontenac referred to in his letter.  As
mentioned above, François-Michel, François' son, was also
killed by the Iroquois at the Rivière des Prairies on 7 May
1691. André Jarret Sieur de Beauregard was the only one of
François' brothers to come to Canada.  Could this statement
in Frontenac’s letter be in reference to André's death at
the hands of the Iroquois?  One of François’ brothers
would be André and “his son” would refer
François-Michel de Verchères, his half-brother's son.
This would be consistent with Vincent's birth in January 1692.
After André was killed by the Indians his widow, Marguerite,
married Pierre Fontaine dit Bienvenue.  The wedding was in
Verchères on 13 April 1692. This was the day after Bénigne
Basset had taken the inventory of André’s belongings to
settle his estate. Marguerite and Pierre Fontaine had three
children: Marie-Thérèse, Marguerite, and Gabriel. It is
interesting to note here that Arthur Beauregard, my father,
married Marie Reine Fontaine on 24 Sept. 1924.  Her father,
grandfather, and great-grandfather were all named Pierre
Fontaine.   According to my mother and her siblings,
they were all  "Bienvenues".
Marguerite Anthiaume died on Isle Sainte Marie (Verchères) in 4
October 1699 at the age of 40.  Her son, Gabriel Fontaine
dit Bienvenue, was born on 24 September and was baptized on 5
October, the day after his mother died. So Marguerite probably
died from complications after childbirth. Anne-Marie, the oldest
living daughter, was 17 at that time.  Louis, Joseph, and
Vincent, André and Marguerite's three youngest children, were,
respectively, about 13, 9, and 7 years old when their mother
died.  After Marguerite Anthiaume‘s death, Pierre
Fontaine married Marguerite Gentes and had eleven more children.
JOSEPH JARED DIT
BEAUREGARD
Joseph, was André & Marguerite Anthiaume’s seventh
child and my direct ancestor.  He was born about 2 years
before his father, André, was killed by the Indians.  He
was said to be 9 years old when his mother, Marguerite Anthiaume,
died on 4 October 1699.  Joseph married Marie-Jeanne Joachim
dite Laverdure on 26 November 1714 in Boucherville, Québec,
Canada.
Joseph and Marie-Jeanne Joachim lived in Boucherville, Québec.
They had eight children: Joseph, Jacques, Jean-Baptiste, Alexis,
François-Marie (my ancestor), Jeanne-Angélique, Louis, and
Ambroise.  After Marie-Jeanne Joachim died, he married
Charlotte Pinot and had 13 more children: André, Madeleine,
Marguerite, Charles, Pierre, another Pierre, Alexis, Louis,
Marguerite, another Louis, Ambroise, Charlotte, and Catherine.
Joseph died in Verchères on 16 December 1759.
FRANCOIS-MARIE
JARED DIT BEAUREGARD
François-Marie Jared (Jarret) dit Beauregard, my ancestor,
married Thérèse Charon dite Cabana dite Larose in Verchères,
Québec on 16 January 1747.  They  lived in St.
Charles-sur-Richelieu, Québec and had twelve children.  The
children were François born on 9 December 1747 (he died at 2),
Charlotte born on 8 November 1749, Charles born on 20 May 1751, a
second François (my ancestor) born on 3 June 1753, Louis born on
18 December 1754, Françoise born on 27 February 1756, Thérèse
born on 13 October 1757, Jean-Marie born on 6 January 1759
(twin), Joseph born on 6 January 1759 (twin), Jean-Louis born on
20 September 1760, Etienne born on 12 February 1762, and
Marie-Ester born and died in 1763.
FRANCOIS JARED DIT
BEAUREGARD
My great great great grand father, François Jared dit Beauregard
married Marie Ledoux in St. Denis, Québec on 1 October 1781.
François and Marie Ledoux lived on a farm in
St-Charles-sur-Richelieu, Québec and had eight children,
François (my ancestor), Etienne, Marie-des-Anges,
Marie-Madelaine, Pierre, Marie-Angélique, Félicité, and Marie.
The Church record of their marriage reads as follows:
“1 October 1781 Marriage:
françois jared dit Beauregard age 29 son of deceased françois
jared and Thérèse Charon of the parish of St. Charles and Marie
Ledoux age 24 daughter of françois Ledoux and Marie Maheux of
St. Denis.” (sic.)
FRANCOIS JARRET DIT
BEAUREGARD
My great great grandfather François Jared dit Beauregard
married Marie Louise Bergeron in St. Denis, Québec on 13 July
1807.  She was born in 1783 and was the daughter of Joseph
Bergeron and Marie Françoise Paquet.  This marriage took
place only one year after the end of the Lewis and Clark
expedition in the U.S.  François and Marie Louise Bergeron
lived in St-Charles-sur-Richelieu, Québec and had twelve
children: François-Xavier (died young), Marie-Louise, François,
Rose, François-Xavier, Sophie, Josephte, Marie-Aldée,
Toussaint, Angèle, Louis, and Léocodie. All of their children
except the first François-Xavier were born in
St-Charles-sur-Richelieu. François, my great great grandfather,
died of Cholera in St-Charles-sur-Richelieu on 3 September 1834.
He was 51 years old.
FRANCOIS-XAVIER
BEAUREGARD
My great grandfather, François-Xavier Beauregard was born in
St-Denis-sur-Richelieu, Québec on 26 June 1814. He married
Anastasie (Sophie) Michon in St-Denis on 25 February 1840.  The
name, François-Xavier Beauregard, used here is as written in the
1861 census records.  So either he or his father stopped
using the name Jared. The following is a translation of the
St-Denis church record of the wedding (Note: the spelling of the
names is as written in that document):
“25 February 1840 Marriage:
Francois Xavier Jarret dit Beauregard son of Francois Jarret and
Marie Louise Bergeron in the presence of Francois Jarret, brother
of the groom, jean Baptiste Michon, father of the bride, Pierre
Corveau her uncle, Olivier Jarret, jean Baptiste Michon, and
Christophe Faneuf.  Signed by Francois Xavier Jarret dit
Beauregard, Anastasie Michon, J B Michon, and Francois
Jarret.”
François Xavier and Anastasie Michon had six children François,
Adèle, Joseph, Jean-Baptiste Misaël, Raymond, and Emilie.
The family lived in St. Denis-sur-Richelieu, Québec.  Eventually,
François migrated to Connecticut, Adèle, Joseph, Misaël
remained in Canada, and Raymond migrated to Chicago.  Emilie
died when she was about seven years old.
.
MISAËL BEAUREGARD
My grandfather Jean-Baptiste Misaël Beauregard, the son of
François and Anastasie Michon was born in St.
Denis-sur-Richelieu, Québec 2 October 1845.  He was 16
years old when the American Civil war started in 1861.  Misaël,
as he was called, married Marie Rhéaume on 18 February 1873 in La Présentation, Québec.
This was the same year that the Prime Minister, Alexander
MacKenzie, founded the Royal Canadian Northwest Mounted
Police. According to my father, Misaël’s youngest son,
the family lived on a farm in La Présentation, Québec.
Misaël and Marie Rhéaume had 16 children, nine girls and seven
boys -- Marie-Sophie, Victoria, Rose-Anna, Cédulie, Magloire,
Jean-Baptiste, Elmire, Misaël, Marie-Louise, Joseph, Maria,
Mathias, Adrienne, Elphège, Louisa, and Arthur.  All except
Arthur, my father, stayed in Canada and many had large families.
ARTHUR
GEORGE BEAUREGARD
My father, Arthur, was born in La Présentation, Québec on 17
October 1897.  In 1922 he was living in St. Thomas
d’Aquin, Québec.  He and a friend heard that there was
a labor strike at the Central Vermont Railroad shops in St.
Albans, Vermont and that they were looking for workers.  So
they crossed the border in Highgate, Vermont and he was hired to
work as a mechanic in the railroad car shops in St. Albans.
Some time later, my father went back to Montreal to get his
"papers" (green card) and became a legal emigrant.
He was naturalized in the U.S. District Court, Burlington, VT
on 1 March 1940 (Petition # 8922, Certificate # 4655126).
Arthur married Marie-Reine Fontaine, my mother, in Winooski,
Vermont on 1 September 1924. Marie-Reine was the daughter of
Pierre Fontaine and Hermina Archambault and was born in Lowell,
MA on 6 December 1904.  He had met my mother in St. Thomas
d’Aquin, Québec some years earlier. She had been there
living with her sister, Domitilde Rivet.  At the time they
married she was living with her brother Francis and his family in
Winooski, VT and working as a seamstress in the mills.  Arthur
and Marie-Reine settled in St. Albans, VT and had three children
Laurence born on 25 September 1925, Joseph born on 23 September
1927 and Raymond (me) born on 21 December 1928.
RAYMOND L. BEAUREGARD
On my birth Certificate my name is given as Louis Raymond
Beauregard but no one ever called me Louis. I've always been
known as Raymond Louis or "Ray".  I married Dorothy
Mary Drissel on 27 Aug. 1955 in St. Gabriel's
Church in Washington, DC.  “Dottie” was born in
Washington, DC and is the daughter of Winfield Lyman Drissel and Ruth
Connor.  We met while students at the Catholic
University of America in Washington, DC.  I was a veteran
and had spent two years in the Army as a tank commander.  My
duty stations in the Army were Camp Pickett, VA, Fort Irwin, CA,
and Munich, Germany. Dottie quit CU in our junior year and we got
married.  Needless to say, her father and mother were not
too happy with our decision.   Dottie worked as a Math
Assistant at the John Hopkin’s University Applied Physics
Laboratory in Silver Springs, MD while I finished my senior year.
I received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Catholic
University in 1956 and went to work as an Aeronautical Fuels and
Propellants Chemist at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory, White Oak,
MD. After working there for 10 years, I transferred to the
Bureau of Naval Weapons located on Pennsylvania Ave. in
Washington, DC.
Dottie and I had five sons (no girls), Michael, James, John,
Robert, and Stephen.  Dottie went back to school after all
the children were in school and got a bachelor's degree in
environmental health from the George Washington University in
Washington, DC.
As to our five sons, Mike married Maura McGuire on 25 Aug. 1984
at Providence College in Providence, RI.  Maura is the
daughter of Martin (Marty) McGuire and Kathleen O'Leary.  Mike,
Maura and their two children, Kevin and Katherine Connor (K.C.),
live in south Windsor,  Connecticut.  Mike is a
Chemical Engineer and is a partner in a small company called
RESOURCE ENGINEERING, INC.  You can check out Mike’s
company at http://www.reseng.com/.
Our son Jim died of
a malignant brain tumor on 6 September 1979 at Georgetown
University Hospital in Washington DC.  He was studying
Industrial Engineering at Maryland University and was 21 years
old at the time.
John married Cindy
Werber in Washington, DC on 1 October 1988.  Cindy is the
daughter of Bill Werber and Ailcey Jones.   John and
Cindy have three children, Chris, Jill, and A.J.  They live
in Potomac, MD.  John received an MD from the Georgetown
University Medical School in Washington, DC and then continued on
there to specialize in anesthesiology.  Following that, he
spend three years as a Navy doctor, but is now out and working as
an anesthesiologist at Sibley Hospital in Washington, DC.
Bob
graduated from Maryland University with a Bachelor’s degree
in Mechanical Engineering. For a number of years, he worked on
Navy contracts which required him to spend many hours underwater
on submarine sea trials.  He was spending too much time at
sea so he decided to quit and move to the West coast to work with
his brother Steve.  He now lives in Santa Monica, CA and
enjoys his work and the beach especially volleyball and ocean
kayaking.
Steve married
Lee Fox in Long Beach, CA on 24 May 1997.  She is the
daughter of Bob Fox and Linda Carnesale.  Steve and Lee have
two children, Danielle Fox Beauregard and Jarret Fox Beauregard.
They live in Malibu, CA.  Steve graduated from Frostburg
University in Frostburg, MD with degrees in Computer Science and
Accounting. He founded and now works in his company called REGARD,
LLC.  You can check on Steve’s company at http://www.regard.com/.
[Home]