Jennifer Aniston and Josh Hopkins: Just Friends
Skip to Content
Search
Search for:
Close Search
×
News
Breaking News
Trending
Celebrity Gossip
Celebrity Babies
The Royals
Reality TV
Latest News & Recaps
Duggar News
Sister Wives
Teen Mom
Entertainment
TV
Movies
Music
Sports
Meet The Team
Subscribe
Jasmine Crockett: Congresswoman Denies Cracking Joke About Wheelchair-Bound Texas GovernorHailey & Justin Bieber: Moving to Europe to Save Their Marriage?Jennifer Aniston Was Upset at Being Banned From From Ex Justin Theroux’s Wedding: …Lizzo Fires Back at Weight Loss Backlash, Hypocritical TrollsSydney Sweeney Deletes Jonathan Davino Kiss Pic: Is It Over?Leonardo DiCaprio’s Girlfriend Actually Talks About Dating Famous ActorBen Affleck Breaks Silence on J-Lo Divorce, Admits He’s ‘More Private’ …Garcelle Beauvais Is Leaving ‘The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills’ After 5 …
Jennifer Aniston and Josh Hopkins: Just Friends
By Author Free Britney
Published: Sep 13, 2010 at 6:24 AM • Updated: Apr 11, 2022 at 5:58 PM • Category Jennifer Aniston
Reading Time:  < 1 minute
Reading Time:   < 1 minuteLooks like all that flirty energy was misinterpreted.
Cougar Town star Josh Hopkins says his recent dinner with Jennifer Aniston was just a friendly meal: “No, no, we’re just friends – just friends having dinner,” he said, noting “There’s a lot of friends I’d less rather go to dinner with.”
Josh Hopkins would’ve made a great Mr. Jennifer Aniston.
The rumors linking Hopkins to the Friends actress, who’s recently  been spotted out with Lindsay Lohan’s ex, Harry Morton, weren’t totally  discouraging for the actor. “There are worse people to be in a rumor  with,” he said.
And still, he did pay: “Well I’m a southern gentleman, so I had to do that.”
Who will Jen be falsely linked to this week? Stay tuned!
Post navigation
Vinny Guadagnino on Angelina Pivarnick Hookup: Whatevah!Lady Gaga Meat Dress: Tasty or Tasteless?
Click here to cancel reply.
About Us
•
Terms of Use
•
Privacy Notice
•
Legal and Privacy Center
© 2025 The Hollywood Gossip