Herb Used To Treat Diabetes Works Like Modern-day Prescription Drugs, Study Suggests | ScienceDaily
Skip to main content
Your source for the latest research news
Follow:
Facebook
X/Twitter
Subscribe:
RSS Feeds
Newsletter
New! Sign up for our free email newsletter.
Science News
from research organizations
Herb Used To Treat Diabetes Works Like Modern-day Prescription Drugs, Study Suggests
Date:
February 21, 2005
Source:
Ohio State University
Summary:
An herb used in traditional Indian medicine to treat diabetes seems to lower blood sugar and insulin levels in a manner similar to prescription drugs, a new study reports.
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIN
Email
FULL STORY
COLUMBUS, Ohio – An herb used in traditional Indian medicine to treat diabetes seems to lower blood sugar and insulin levels in a manner similar to prescription drugs, a new study reports.
Researchers gave extracts of the herb Salacia oblonga to 39 healthy adults, and the results were promising. The largest dose of the herb extract – 1,000 milligrams – decreased insulin and blood glucose levels by 29 and 23 percent, respectively.
"These kinds of reductions are similar to what we might see with prescription oral medications for people with diabetes," said Steve Hertzler, a study co-author and an assistant professor of nutrition at Ohio State University.
Salacia oblonga, which is native to regions of India and Sri Lanka, binds to intestinal enzymes that break down carbohydrates in the body. These enzymes, called alpha-glucosidases, turn carbohydrates into glucose, the sugar that circulates throughout the body. If the enzyme binds to the herbal extract rather than to a carbohydrate, then less glucose gets into the blood stream, resulting in lowered blood glucose and insulin levels.
"Lowering blood glucose levels lowers the risk of disease-related complications in people with diabetes," Hertzler said. "Also, poor compliance with diabetes medications often hinders the effectiveness of these drugs. It may be easier to get someone to take an herb with food or in a beverage, as opposed to a pill."
The study appears in a recent issue of the Journal of the American Dietetic Association.
Thirty-nine healthy adults participated in four separate meal tolerance tests. These meals, which were given in beverage form, were spaced three to 14 days apart. Each participant fasted for at least 10 hours before consuming the test beverage.
Participants were asked to drink about two cups' worth of the chilled beverage, which contained zero, 500, 700 or 1,000 milligrams of Salacia oblonga extract. Afterward, the researchers used the finger-prick method to draw blood samples from each person every 15 to 30 minutes for three hours. These blood samples were used to determine insulin and blood glucose concentrations. The biggest changes in blood glucose and insulin levels usually happen within the first two hours after eating.
The beverage that contained the highest concentration of the herbal extract – 1,000 milligrams – provided the most dramatic reduction in insulin and blood glucose levels. Insulin levels were 29 percent lower, while blood glucose levels were 23 percent lower as compared to the control drink, which contained no herbal extract.
As Salacia oblonga can cause intestinal gas, the researchers had the study participants collect breath hydrogen samples hourly for eight hours after drinking the test beverage. The participants collected their breath in small plastic tubes. The researchers then analyzed these breath samples for hydrogen and methane content – the level of either substance in the breath corresponds to the level contained in the colon.
The subjects also rated the frequency and intensity of nausea, abdominal cramping and distention and gas for two days after consuming each test meal.
While the test beverages containing Salacia oblonga caused an increase in breath hydrogen excretion, reports of gastrointestinal discomfort were minimal, Hertzler said.
Right now he and his colleagues are trying to figure out what dose of the herb is most effective, and when it should be taken relative to a meal.
"We want to know how long it takes for the herb to bind to the enzymes that break down carbohydrates," Hertzler said. "The participants in this study took the herb with their meal, but maybe taking it before eating would be even more effective."
The researchers also want to study the effects of Salacia oblonga in people with diabetes.
"A lot of studies show that lowering blood sugar levels reduces the risk for all kinds of diabetes-related complications, such as kidney disease and nerve and eye damage," Hertzler said. "We want to see if this herb has this kind of effect."
Salacia oblonga is still relatively difficult to find in the United States, Hertzler said, although there are manufacturers that sell the herb through the Internet.
This study was supported by the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories in Columbus.
Hertzler is continuing to conduct Salacia oblonga studies with the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories. He has no links to the company beyond this affiliation.
Hertzler conducted the work with former Ohio State colleague Patricia Heacock, who is now at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey; Jennifer Williams, a clinical scientist with Ross Products Division, Abbott Laboratories; and Bryan Wolf, a former research scientists with Ross Products Division.
RELATED TOPICS
Health & Medicine
Diabetes
Hypertension
Dietary Supplements and Minerals
Diet and Weight Loss
Plants & Animals
Food
Cell Biology
Molecular Biology
Biology
RELATED TERMS
Diabetes
Insulin
Diabetes mellitus type 1
Diabetes mellitus type 2
Blood sugar
Low-carb diets
Hyperglycemia
Glycemic index
Story Source:
Materials provided by Ohio State University. Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
Cite This Page:
MLA
APA
Chicago
Ohio State University. "Herb Used To Treat Diabetes Works Like Modern-day Prescription Drugs, Study Suggests." ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 21 February 2005. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2005/02/050218160028.htm>.
Ohio State University. (2005, February 21). Herb Used To Treat Diabetes Works Like Modern-day Prescription Drugs, Study Suggests. ScienceDaily. Retrieved March 25, 2025 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2005/02/050218160028.htm
Ohio State University. "Herb Used To Treat Diabetes Works Like Modern-day Prescription Drugs, Study Suggests." ScienceDaily. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2005/02/050218160028.htm (accessed March 25, 2025).
Explore More
from ScienceDaily
RELATED STORIES
A New Injectable to Prevent and Treat Hypoglycemia
Oct. 2, 2024 — People with diabetes take insulin to lower high blood sugar. However, if glucose levels plunge too low -- from taking too much insulin or not eating enough sugar -- people can experience ...  Drinking Kombucha May Reduce Blood Sugar Levels in People With Type-Two Diabetes
Aug. 1, 2023 — People with type-II diabetes who drank the fermented tea drink kombucha for four weeks had lower fasting blood glucose levels compared to when they consumed a similar-tasting placebo beverage, ...  Weekly Insulin Helps Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Achieve Similar Blood Sugar Control to Daily Insulin
Mar. 21, 2021 — A new once-weekly basal insulin injection demonstrated similar efficacy and safety and a lower rate of low blood sugar episodes compared with a daily basal insulin, according to a phase 2 clinical ...  Eating Before 8:30 A.m. Could Reduce Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
Mar. 18, 2021 — People who start eating before 8:30 a.m. had lower blood sugar levels and less insulin resistance, which could reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes, according to a new ...
Print
Email
Share
Breaking
this hour
Math Shows Logic in How People Walk in Crowds
Chimps Act as 'Engineers' When Making Tools
Healthy Eating in Midlife: Healthy Aging
Non-Surgical Contraceptive Implant
New Path to Clean Drinking Water
Oxygen for Mars
Engineered Starfish Cells Shape-Shift in Light
Secrets of Locust Swarm Movement
Fusing Wireless Technologies and AI
Galapagos Birds Exhibit 'Road Rage' Due to Noise
Trending Topics
this week
HEALTH & MEDICINE
Pharmaceuticals
Gastrointestinal Problems
Stroke Prevention
MIND & BRAIN
Brain Injury
Behavior
Stroke
LIVING & WELL
Behavior
Spirituality
Teen Health
Strange & Offbeat
HEALTH & MEDICINE
Scientists Engineer Starfish Cells to Shape-Shift in Response to Light
Engineer Develops New Security Protocol to Protect Miniaturized Wireless Medical Implants from Cyberthreats
Innovative Infant Wearable Uses Artificial Intelligence for at-Home Assessments of Early Motor Development
MIND & BRAIN
VR Study Reveals How Pain and Fear Weaken Sense of Body Ownership
Novel Memristors to Overcome AI's 'Catastrophic Forgetting'
Insomniac Fruit Fly Mutants Show Enhanced Memory Despite Severe Sleep Loss
LIVING & WELL
Feline Therapy: Study Suggests Cats Could Fill an Assistive Niche
Scientists Uncover Principles Underlying the Toxicity of 'Selfish' Genes
To the Brain, Esperanto and Klingon Appear the Same as English or Mandarin
Toggle navigation
Menu
SD
SD
Home Page
Top Science News
Latest News
Home
Home Page
Top Science News
Latest News
Health
View all the latest top news in the health sciences, or browse the topics below:
Health & Medicine
Allergy
Cancer
Cold and Flu
Diabetes
Heart Disease
... more topics
Mind & Brain
ADD and ADHD
Alzheimer's
Headaches
Intelligence
Psychology
... more topics
Living Well
Parenting
Child Development
Stress
Nutrition
Fitness
... more topics
Tech
View all the latest top news in the physical sciences & technology, or browse the topics below:
Matter & Energy
Chemistry
Fossil Fuels
Nanotechnology
Physics
Solar Energy
... more topics
Space & Time
Black Holes
Dark Matter
Extrasolar Planets
Solar System
Space Telescopes
... more topics
Computers & Math
Artificial Intelligence
Mathematics
Quantum Computers
Robotics
Virtual Reality
... more topics
Enviro
View all the latest top news in the environmental sciences, or browse the topics below:
Plants & Animals
Agriculture and Food
Biology
Biotechnology
Extinction
Microbes and More
... more topics
Earth & Climate
Climate
Earthquakes
Geology
Global Warming
Pollution
... more topics
Fossils & Ruins
Anthropology
Archaeology
Dinosaurs
Evolution
Paleontology
... more topics
Society
View all the latest top news in the social sciences & education, or browse the topics below:
Science & Society
Arts & Culture
Economics
Privacy Issues
Public Health
Sports
... more topics
Business & Industry
Computers & Internet
Energy & Resources
Engineering
Medical Technology
Transportation
... more topics
Education & Learning
Creativity
Educational Psychology
Infant & Preschool
Learning Disorders
STEM Education
... more topics
Quirky
Top News
Human Quirks
Odd Creatures
Bizarre Things
Weird World
Keyword:Search
Free Subscriptions
Stay informed with ScienceDaily's free email newsletter, updated daily and weekly. Or view our many newsfeeds in your RSS reader:
Email Newsletter
RSS Feeds
Follow Us
Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks:
Facebook
X / Twitter
Have Feedback?
Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments. Have any problems using the site? Questions?
Leave Feedback
Contact Us
About This Site   |   Staff   |   Contribute   |   Advertise   |   Privacy Policy   |  Editorial Policy  |   Terms of Use
Copyright 1995-2024 ScienceDaily or by other parties, where indicated. All rights controlled by their respective owners. Content on this website is for information only. It is not intended to provide medical or other professional advice. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily, contributors or partners. Financial support for ScienceDaily comes from advertisements and referral programs.