Smashwords – About Al Newman, author of 'Anaconda Among Us' and 'Golden Gate Volcano'
Search
Home
About
FAQ
Sign Up
Filtering
Exclude erotica
Include mainstream erotica
Include all erotica
About
Join
Sign In
Home
Site Updates
Blog
Upload an eBook
Sell in the Smashwords store
Smart Author Podcast
FAQ
FOR FASTER ANSWERS, CHECK THESE LINKS BEFORE YOU EMAIL US:
Where are my ebooks?
How to read ebooks
on my tablet or mobile device
on my desktop or laptop computer
on my ebook reader
How to purchase ebooks
Received an email from us, or wondering if something changed at Smashwords?
Check our 'Site Updates' for the
latest news.
Have a question not already answered in the links at left
or on our FAQ?
Ask it below.
Your E-mail:
Subject:
Describe your issue
Member Since:
June 06, 2011
4 readers have added this author as a 'Favorite Author'.
Sign in to subscribe to email alerts for Al Newman
Al Newman
Biography
I was born in the seaport city of Portsmouth, NH, in 1932.  Son and grandson of sailors, my association with the sea goes back several generations.  After graduating from Portsmouth High School in 1950, I served on a destroyer 1951-1954.  I graduated cum laude in economics from the University of New Hampshire in 1958.  I was a bookkeeper for a laundry supply company in Durham, NH, and was an accountant at the Shell Oil refinery in Martinez, CA, 1960-1963.  Too late, I discovered that I found economics tedious.  So, without ever having taken an education course, and with only one semester of French Literature and one year of Italian in college, I was hired out of the oil refinery to teach French and Spanish at an elementary school in Placerville, CA.  Oh, and at half the pay.  I was weighing oil trucks on a Friday and teaching school the following Tuesday.
Since taking freshman English in 1954, I had never taken any classes that might prepare me to be a writer.  When the inspiration hit me, I just jumped in.  I had rambled through life – first a cook, then a US Navy sailor, then an accountant, and finally a teacher.  Writing was still over the horizon.
I retired from teaching in 1988, sold off what I owned, drove to Puerto Barrios, on the east coast of Guatemala, and became a partner in a used clothing business.  I bought a concrete shell of a house on a muddy road with jungle outside my bedroom window.  Got rid of the gigantic roaches and the scorpions, and prepared for life in the tropics.  But – I soon became uncomfortable making money on the backs of people whose income averaged a tiny fraction of my own.  So, I used my equity in the clothing business to pay off what I owed on my home.
No longer working, I sat staring at the breadfruit trees and bamboo across the road.  A troop of feral pigs would occasionally storm down the road to gnaw at my date palm stump that produced dates at ground level.  A boa constrictor managed to get up under my tin roof and take up residence on my drop ceiling.  My yard man discovered it when we became curious as to why I was no longer troubled with rats, mice and bats.  So the snake and I had a symbiotic relationship.  But, I was bored to distraction.  There had to be more to life than sitting on my front steps, drinking Gallo beer, and swatting insects.  Then, one glorious day – an epiphany.
I had never been at ease with my house’s location near the Motagua River.  An earthquake there in 1976 had taken 23,000 lives, and I really didn’t want to be part of the next inevitable statistic.  Another interesting thing – Guatemala is ringed with active volcanoes.  You know what?  I had to write that novel that just about everybody intends to write someday.  My novel would be about earthquakes and a volcano.
I started looking for research materials, but I never found a place where I could buy a book – any book – in Puerto Barrios.  And this was before the Internet, by the way.  I drove to Guatemala City, 180 miles distant, and found a bookstore near the university, but it didn’t have what I needed.  I couldn’t let my exciting plan wither on the vine, so, I sold my house and drove back to California.  I became a virtual recluse for the eighteen months it took me to write Golden Gate Volcano.  I did take time to ride my bicycle 60 miles on my 60th birthday, though.
I was never able to get my novel published – but I was a bona fide writer, and that was all that mattered.  And I had an idea for my next novel.  Soon after I arrived in Puerto Barrios an employee at our clothing store had killed a 12-foot boa constrictor in the weeds out back.  We gutted it to check on a curious lump, and discovered a very large, partially digested iguana.  The experience stayed with me.  OK – I’d write about a snake.  A big snake.  Big-big, even.  Hmmm.  Why not a snake that ate people?
I took a Greyhound bus from Sacramento to Brownsville, Texas, switched from bus to bus in Mexico, and finally arrived in Belize.  For six harrowing weeks, I rode all over the country in sputtering buses with crates of chickens on the roof, crawled jungles, climbed pyramids – even  had my life threatened.  But I survived, amassed vast quantities of photographs and research material, flew home, and wrote Anaconda Among Us.  OK, so there are no anacondas in Belize.  I explain this paradox in the story.
Well, I’m a genealogist, too – I have been since 1946.  Even as a teenager, I faithfully kept all of my correspondence and identified every photo given to me by elderly relatives.  I zeroed in on my favorite ancestor – John Pio, my great-great-great grandfather, an immigrant sailor from Madeira.  I researched his descendants and compiled pedigrees for everyone researchable who married into the blood line.  The result is not for the casual reader.  John Pio Came to Maine incorporates every scrap of information I could find on John and his descendants.  It contains hundreds ...
Books
Anaconda Among Us
by Al Newman
Price:
$0.99 USD.
Words: 173,840.
Language:
English.
Published: April 23, 2017
.
Categories:
Fiction » Science fiction » Adventure
Another oversized anaconda story?  Yawn!  Hold on, though.  This one has a credible, complex plot and an extensive cast of characters – American misfits in Belize, corrupt officials, lovers, Mafia types, scumbags, Mennonites, jailbirds, and, of course, the anaconda.  The predator’s size stretches credibility, but not enough to make this science fiction.  Anaconda Among Us is scientific fiction.
Golden Gate Volcano
by Al Newman
Price:
$0.99 USD.
Words: 212,680.
Language:
English.
Published: April 21, 2017
.
Categories:
Fiction » Science fiction » High tech
(5.00 from 1 review)
Please - not another tired, old, metropolitan volcano story!  Heads up, reader – this is a cut above.  Be ready for a complex plot, a dazzling cast of characters, intrigue, science galore, tension, love interests, and White House involvement.  A USGS vulcanologist wants to warn the public that an eruption is imminent.  His superiors try to silence him.  Let thousands die?  Isn’t that insane?
Al Newman's tag cloud
anaconda
belize
constrictor
earthquake
intrigue
jungle
snake
volcanology
About
Blog
FAQ
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Authors / Publishers
Support
Filtering
Exclude erotica
Include mainstream erotica
Include all erotica
Sign In / Sign Up
Copyright © 2025 Smashwords, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2025 Smashwords, Inc.
All rights reserved.
×
Smashwords Alerts
You have subscribed to Smashwords Alerts new release notifications for Al Newman.
You will receive an email alert if one or more of the authors you're
following has a new release.  If you like, you can change the digest
interval below. You can view and manage by clicking to
Manage Smashwords Alerts.
daily
weekly
monthly
Would you like to favorite Al Newman?
Favoriting is a great way to show your support for the authors you love.
Yes, add Al Newman to my Favorites
No thanks
Click on any of the links below to share with your social network.
Tweet
Done
×
Favorite Authors
You have been added to Al Newman's
favorite list.
Click on any of the links below to share with your social network.
Tweet
You can also sign-up to receive email notifications whenever
Al Newman releases a new book.
Sign me up!
No thanks
By default you will receive a daily digest containing any books
that were published by authors in your subscription list. If you
like, you can change the digest interval below.
daily
weekly
monthly
Done