Anchorage Music Dance Lessons Piano Guitar Piano Ballet Hip Hop Preschool
Home
Dance
Get Dance Recital Tickets HERE
Program Overview
Preschool
Grade School & Teens
Our Teachers
Parent Information
Policies/Fees
Are All Dance Studios the Same?
Music
Program Overview
Private Lessons
Group Classes
Our Teachers
Parent Information
Policies/Fees
Are All Music Studios the Same?
Summer 2024
Summer Dance Classes
Summer Dance Camps
Summer Group Music & Rock Band
Summer Private Music
Calendar
School Year
Contact
Employment
Music Teachers
Portal
ENROLL ONLINE
Anchorage Music & Dance
Over 25 years in Anchorage! Private & Group Music Lessons & Dance Classes CALL 907-345-1555 OR ENROLL ONLINE
ENROLL ONLINE
Get Dance Recital Tickets HERE
Music Program
Dance Program
LessonMate
Music Program
We offer both in-person & online music lessons.  We have a state of the art camera and sound system for online lessons with Zoom.  Students never have to worry about missing a lesson again.  If you can't make it to the studio, just call us, and your teacher will meet you online!
We offer private music lessons for guitar, piano, drums, voice, violin, cello, viola & bass. We also offer beginner group classes for Keyboard & Guitar, and for the Rock Star in the family, Rock Band Classes too!
Our teachers are professional musicians with performance & teaching experience.  Most have, or are completing, music performance degrees or music education degrees…some of our teachers have both!  Our teachers know how to relate to each student to help them master skills that create results, all while the student is having fun!
Our studio uses LessonMate, an innovative program to send students video demonstrations & lesson information for students to review in between their regularly scheduled lesson times.  If a student misses a lesson, their teacher will send them their lesson over the LessonMate system so the student doesn't miss out that week, and never falls behind.  Anchorage Music & Dance Center gives LessonMate accounts for FREE to all our enrolled music students.
Our students perform in three formal recitals each year: December, May & July on our Center Stage at the studio. Music students also participate in our Music Club which provides performance opportunities in a more casual environment.  We strongly believe that students who perform regularly learn the joy of sharing their music with others, while overcoming any hesitation or fears about participating in formal recitals.
Dance Program
Our students are exposed to dance in a positive, exciting atmosphere! Our
studios are equipped with floating "marley" dance floors which helps reduce the
risk of injuries and allows students to dance longer without getting tired.
Our class size is small: 10 students maximum in our classes. Our small classes
are BIG on personal attention for each student!
Our preschool program, My First Dance Class Pre-Ballet program is a wonderful
introduction to dance. Dance classes for Kindergarten, Grade School & Teens
include Ballet (all levels), Pre-Pointe, Tap, Hip Hop, Jazz Lyrical, Acro & Combo
Classes! Our annual Spring Dance Recital is always an exciting time when our
students perform on stage at the Wendy Williamson Auditorium at UAA.
We also have a performance dance teams: Evolution Dance Company, Jr. & Sr
Teams. Auditions are held each Summer at the studio, and the team performs at
all our recitals and additional performances throughout the year. This is a non-
competitive group and allows our students an opportunity to perform and share
their love of dance with others!
LessonMate
Our teachers use the innovative program, LessonMate to send our students video demonstrations and lesson information for students to review in between their regularly scheduled lesson times. If a student misses a lesson, their teacher will send them their lesson over the LessonMate system so the student doesn't miss out that week, and never falls behind. Anchorage Music & Dance Center gives LessonMate accounts for FREE to all our enrolled students!
Who we are
Anchorage Music & Dance Center is celebrating 30 years of private & group music instruction and 15 years of dance!
Convenient
We are a unique school offering quality private & group music and dance classes at one convenient location. Multiple students from the same family can take private or group music lessons and dance classes on the same day. That means parents only have to drive to one location for everyone's lessons & classes. What a time saver for the entire family!
Homeschoolers
We work with most all homeschool & charter schools in the State of Alaska.  We are a direct bill vendor which means we invoice the school, so there is no "out-of-pocket" expense for the family!
Our network of schools include:  Family Partnership; Frontier Charter School; PAIDEIA; IDEA; Mat-Su Central; Twindly Bridge; Denali Peak, PACE, CyberLynx & Raven.
Don't see your school here?  Contact us and we'll see if we can work with them too!
Gallery
>
All
Dance
Music
Preschool
Anchorage Music and Dance Facebook Page