Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
Register
Help
Remember Me?
Forgotten Your Password?
Forum
Active Topics
Since Last Visit
Today
Last Hour
Last Two Hours
Last Six Hours
Last Twelve Hours
Yesterday
Last Two Days
Last Week
Last Month
Last Two Months
Forum Actions
Mark Forums Read
Quick Links
View Site Leaders
Donate
Whats new
Arcade
Chat Room
Advanced Search
Forum
Problems / Issues
Health Anxiety
Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
If this is your first visit, be sure to
check out the FAQ by clicking the
link above. You may have to register
before you can post: click the register link above to proceed. To start viewing messages,
select the forum that you want to visit from the selection below.
Results 1 to 5 of 5
Thread: Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
Thread Tools
Show Printable Version
Display
Linear Mode
Switch to Hybrid Mode
Switch to Threaded Mode
05-03-09, 18:11
#1
eurotrashcub
View Profile
View Forum Posts
Private Message
Junior Member
Country:
Join Date Jun 2008
Posts 152
Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
One of my biggest health fears is becoming psychotic or schizophrenic (and hearing or starting to hear voices) and although I have found many posts in these pages that have been helpful in dealing with my obsessions, I have decided to gather some information about this matter so it can be helpful to people who are going through what I have been going through the last few weeks.
Fearing madness is quite a common complaint by people who suffer anxiety disorders. In fact, most people who suffer from an anxiety disorder suffer from this symptom from time to time, at the very least. The specific fear of developing psychosis and/or schizophrenia or schizophrenia-related disorders (Schizoaffective Disorder, Schizotypal Personality Disorder or simply other non-specified psychoses that have traits of schizophrenias) seems to be a kind of health obsession.
On the same way that some people with anxiety become over concerned about a particular illness (most commonly having a heart attack or cancer), Anxiety patients can also develop a fear of developing psychosis and/or schizophrenia (which some people would describe as madness)
Schizophrenia is a serious disorder that seems to be caused by different factors: genetic, psychological and social. Some of its symptoms are:
- Hallucinations (particularly hearing voices)
- Beliefs about thought insertion, broadcast or that's somebody is stealing or controlling one's thoughts.
- Delusions
- Odd and or magical beliefs
- Paranoia
- A flattened mood
- Social withdrawal
- Inability to express themselves verbally with ease.
- An inability to differentiate between what is real and what is not.
The average onset of schizophrenia for males is late teens to mid twenties and for females, it is late twenties to early thirties.
Many people with anxiety disorder who fear going mad tend to obsess about the possibility that they are hearing voices. People with psychosis and/or schizophrenia-like disorders tend to hear voices that are clear. They sound the same way that the voices that you would hear from another person. The voices are not perceived as thoughts and although sometimes they are identified as a 'voice in my head'. psychotic people tend to have explanations for them that are not rational in their social context (i.e God talks to me, my uncle John speaks to me, the CIA is sending messages to my head, aliens are telling me that I am worthless/I need to kill myself)
Therefore it is important to differentiate between your thoughts and the actual perception of hearing somebody or something talk to you when there is nobody there. The question to ask yourself is the following: Are you hearing voices when there is not anybody or anything around you that has produced that voice? If the answer is no, then you are most probably not having auditory hallucinations.
One of my symptoms will be repeating my own name over and over in my head and working myself up to the point where I start to doubt whether I am hearing my own name or not. Another one will be hearing a noise or a whisper at work or when I am out, and checking that what I heard is really, fearing that I am starting to hear things. To date, I have failed to clearly hear a voice of somebody and therefore, I believe, and so does my doctor, that I am not having auditory hallucinations and that my symptoms are related to my anxiety disorder and that are related to OCD.
I would advise to anyone who is going to a several phobia, to go and speak to their GP/therapist who will be able to establish pretty quickly whether you are going psychotic or not and arrange for appropriate treatment for your anxiety disorder.
One of the first things my GP told me is that people who are going psychotic tend to lack insight and consider that what is happening to them is not abnormal and that the rest of the world are the ones with the problem. The fact you are worried you might be going mad makes it unlikely it is happening to you.
Some advice if you are suffering from this obsession:
- Speak to your doctor/therapist/social worker/nurse...
- Stop googling!!
- Take a step back, relax and try to look at the whole picture in an objective manner.
- Once your doctor has reassured you that you are not going psychotic, accept the diagnosis and concentrate on learning how to move on from the fear instead of dwelling on it.
There is an online test for schizophrenia that might be useful:
http://psychcentral.com/quizzes/schizophrenia.htm
It is important to add that having hallucinations while falling asleep or just waking up, when taking certain drugs, due to lack of sleep is not related to psychosis. Also, many people experience hearing their own name being called at some point in their life. This is quite common and it is not a sign of mental illness. Hallucinations are also common and transient during bereavement.
Furthermore, there are some people who use this website who might be really hearing voices and who might have or be developing psychosis:
- Firstly, it is important to say that some people hear voices and they do not have any other mental health problems, nor they lose control with reality. There are several organisations of voice hearers with people who lead perfectly normal and productive lives. It is widely accepted that Sigmund Freud, Winston Churchill and other historical figures were voice hearers, and they did pretty well.
- If you are developing psychosis, the key to a better prognosis is early detection and early treatment. So if you are experiencing symptoms that make you think you are losing touch with reality or (more commonly) of your friends/or family think you are going psychotic, seek treatment at once. There are plenty of therapies (medications. psychotherapy, psychosocial...) that can help people with schizophrenia to lead relatively normal lives.
I hope this helps and I would love to hear from any people who has been obsessing about hearing voices, who are actually hearing voices or who are petrified and concerned they are going mental.
Reply With Quote
05-03-09, 19:23
#2
NoPoet
View Profile
View Forum Posts
Private Message
Senior Member
Country:
Join Date Mar 2009
Posts 3,678
Re: Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
A doctor's diagnosis would be the best way to confirm schizophrenia. The chances of a person "becoming" psychotic are nil as far as I know; you need to be born with it and then something needs to trigger it.
Like the old saying goes, if you are scared that you might be mad, you probably aren't mad.
__________________
Citalopram Survival Guide
Inositol Survival Guide
What would you do if you weren't afraid?
I drew the line between hope and despair, and the line will hold.
"Forth now, and fear no darkness!"
Reply With Quote
05-03-09, 20:13
#3
eurotrashcub
View Profile
View Forum Posts
Private Message
Junior Member
Country:
Join Date Jun 2008
Posts 152
Re: Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
I couldn't agree more to your last comment PsychoPoet... or should that be NeuroPoet?
Reply With Quote
26-04-16, 16:40
#4
BrokenAge
View Profile
View Forum Posts
Private Message
Junior Member
Country:
Join Date Dec 2015
Posts 258
Re: Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
I wish I would've read this sooner. I'm the same way. I witnessed a friend have a psychotic episode and in reality it should've made me sure I wasn't going mad but it only increased my fears. She was so sure someone was going to kill her. Reason was out of the subject. I also worry about this one symptom I have. When I go to bed, or lay down. I can hear voices of my friends or a TV show I heard. Last night I was talking with my friends all night and when I went to bed I could hear the conversations. It sounded like thoughts inside my head, not actual voices outside and it scared me to death but I did research and other members on the board told me it was called the "Tetris effect". Well its glad to know we're not alone.I've always worried about my health haha.
__________________
I've had worse.
Reply With Quote
26-04-16, 17:29
#5
Holds1325
View Profile
View Forum Posts
Private Message
Junior Member
Country:
Join Date Oct 2015
Posts 233
Re: Fear of schizophrenia, hearing voices, psychosis, going mad
Yeah I had this fear because for some reason I could hear radio broadcasts even though I couldn't pinpoint it. I'd lay down and hear everything, from the news to the actual songs. No idea what it was about and it might've very well been like a subwoofer picking up interference or something as I've seen that happen but I could never find it anywhere in my house.
Eventually I just shrugged it off and it went away. I later read that sometimes people actually can hear a radio signal bouncing off like an exposed soundsystem cable or some crap like that. My wife couldnt hear it or notice it either.
Once I ignored it though it never happened again, still very strange. Did I stress over it? Nope, thats why I thought I was schizo, but the thing is, that like I said, it never happened again, very strange? Probably explainable but oh well.
Reply With Quote
Quick Navigation
Health Anxiety
Top
Site Areas
Settings
Private Messages
Subscriptions
Who's Online
Search Forums
Forums Home
Forums
Welcome
Welcome and No More Panic Announcements
Chat Room Announcements
Contacting NMP with comments, questions & concerns, How To's and Technical help
Introduce Yourself
No More Panic Online Shop
Problems / Issues
Symptoms
Palpitations, Ectopics, Missed beats, Heart Worries
Throat/Swallowing/Choking/Globus Hystericus
IBS, IBD, Bowel, Stomach problems
Depersonalization/depersonalisation &  Derealization/derealisation (DP & DR)
Female health issues
Male health issues
Panic / Panic Attacks
General Anxiety / Generalised anxiety disorder (GAD)
Pre/Post Natal (Pregnancy) Anxiety
Social Anxiety
OCD (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder)
Depression from Panic/Anxiety
Phobias
Agoraphobia
Emetophobia
Health Anxiety
ALS , MND &  MS concerns
Rabies Concerns
Medical Tests/Procedures
ECG (Electrocardiogram )
Colonoscopy & Sigmoidoscopy
Blood Tests
Endoscopy
EEG (Electroencephalography)
MRI scan (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)
24-hour Blood Pressure Test
Neurologist
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Remedies/Therapy/Success
Success Stories
NMP Teds Adventures
Top Tips
Therapy
CBT (Cognitive Behavioural Therapy)
Natural Remedies
Medication
Amitriptyline
Anafranil / Clomipramine
Atenolol
Buspirone / Buspar
Citalopram / Celexa
Clonazepam / Klonopin / Rivotril
Diazepam/Valium
Duloxetine / Cymbalta
Effexor / Venlafaxine
Escitalopram / Lexapro / Cipralex
Fluoxetine / Prozac
Mirtazapine /Zispin
Olanzapine / Zyprexa
Pregabalin / Lyrica
Propranolol  / Inderal
Quetiapine / Seroquel
Seroxat / Paroxetine
Sertraline / Zoloft / Lustral
Trazodone
Fun/Games
Panic Pause/Humour/Games & Quizzes
Everything else
Virtual Hugs
Birthday Wishes / Celebrations / Other Announcements
In Memory Of .....
Useful Links
NoMorePanic Meet-ups and Get-togethers
Pen Pals
Misc
Coronavirus / COVID-19
Arts and Craft forum
Pets/Animals
Benefits - ESA/DLA/PIP/JSA/ATOS etc
Media / Research  Interest
Mismatch.co.uk
The sandbox
Testing Forum
«
Long QT and SADS
|
Starting Prozac Today
»
Thread Information
Users Browsing this Thread
There are currently 1 users browsing this thread. (0 members and 1 guests)
Similar Threads
obsessive fear of hearin voices... HELP
By paula 86 in forum OCD (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder)
Replies: 8
Last Post: 20-02-09, 18:23
Citalopram Psychosis?
By UW in forum Citalopram / Celexa
Replies: 6
Last Post: 20-11-07, 01:42
fear of going mad
By flatterycat in forum General Anxiety / Generalised anxiety disorder (GAD)
Replies: 6
Last Post: 28-06-07, 19:30
am i hearing voices?
By joe524 in forum Health Anxiety
Replies: 6
Last Post: 27-02-06, 20:58
hearing voices
By sassy187 in forum Health Anxiety
Replies: 10
Last Post: 06-02-06, 05:09
Tags for this Thread
fear,
hearing,
mad,
psychosis,
schizophrenia,
voices
View Tag Cloud
Posting Permissions
You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
[VIDEO] code is On
HTML code is Off
Forum Rules
-- No More Panic
-- Default Mobile Style
---- No More Panic Mobile
Contact No More Panic
No More Panic
Archive
Privacy Statement
Top
New to No More Panic
The Forum
The Articles
The Chatroom
The NMP Shop
Popular Places
The Forum
The Chatroom
Links
Contact Us
Follow Us
Rss Feeds
Twitter
Facebook
MISCELLANEOUS
Change Ad Consent
Do not sell my data
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Credits
(c) 2000 - 2019 No More Panic
All times are GMT +1. The time now is 00:53.
Powered by vBulletin® Version 4.2.5 Copyright © 2025 vBulletin Solutions Inc. All rights reserved.