Vláčil masterpiece Markéta Lazarová undergoes digital restoration work | Radio Prague International
Skip to main content
Czech Radio
Ways to listen
Newsletter
QSL
Who is who
Contact
Search
Search
Radio Prague - EN
Broadcast in English
03/25/2025
Play
Broadcast Archive
Ways to listen
Culture
News
Domestic affairs
Foreign policy
European Union
Business
Society
Culture
Travel
History
Sport
Science and technology
Nature
Czechs abroad
Foreigners and the Czech Republic
Czech language
CS
DE
EN
ES
FR
РУ
УК
Vláčil masterpiece Markéta Lazarová undergoes digital restoration work
05/10/2011
share
Facebook
Twitter
Play / pause
JavaScript is required.
0:00
/
0:00
volume
Vláčil masterpiece Markéta Lazarová undergoes digital restoration work4:40
<
previous
>
next
⨯
Vláčil masterpiece Markéta Lazarová undergoes digital restoration work
https://english.radio.cz/vlacil-masterpiece-marketa-lazarova-undergoes-digital-restoration-work-8563749#player=on
Copy
Share on social media
Facebook
X
Vláčil masterpiece Markéta Lazarová undergoes digital restoration workLength of audio
4:40
'Markéta Lazarová'
Download
Share
Restoration work has begun on the late František Vláčil’s 1967 film masterpiece Markéta Lazarová, telling the story of a kidnapping and pure love in the drastic Middle Ages. The B&W epic is being completely transferred using digital technology – with damage to the original picture and sound removed. Earlier I spoke to Vít Komrzý, the head of the post-production firm overseeing the intricate work, which will cost close to one million crowns. I asked him about the importance of the film as well as the need for new audiences to see it in its earlier pristine form.
'Markéta Lazarová'“There’s no question the film is a masterpiece of Czech cinematography and that it is important. It is one that is usually ranks among the very best of Czech movies. It is good that we have a chance to restore it because it is very hard now to obtain a decent copy. For young people it should be a really nice experience to see the film in digital cinemas.”Who took the decision to see the film restored?“The decision was taken by the National Film Archive together with the Culture Ministry and it is a project that has received strong support from the president of the Karlovy Vary International Film festival, Jiří Bartoška. I know that they want the restored film to premiere there and that’s basically planned.”What was the original condition of the film?“Well it’s old and it was in storage for many years and it wasn’t great. There is a lot of restoration work involved. But it’s doable and I think the result will be very good.”
Vít KomrzýWhat kind of technology is being used to clean up the picture and sound?“The whole process is quite complex. First, the decision was to transfer the whole film to a digital copy; we are scanning the whole thing to 4K resolution, which makes sense. After that, the next thing is to clean up all the scratches and other damage which is painstakingly detailed work. This is a very time-consuming process. Then, once that is done, we have to go back and compare the digital version to the original to make sure the ‘look’ is as close to the original as possible.”Have you seen the improvements already? Bits and pieces where the change is apparent?“Of course. The commission overseeing the quality meets every week at our studio and we discuss all the necessary steps and the progress made. There is a very visible difference and the picture is crisp and clean, it’s amazing. All the dirt and scratches are history.”
'Markéta Lazarová'Is it a sure thing that the film will see its ‘new’ premiere at the Karlovy Vary film festival?“Well, it’s a lot of work over a short period of time but we have a contract and a deadline so we have to get it done. I don’t see any reason, though, why it wouldn’t be ready.”
Author:
Jan Velinger
tag:
Culture
run audio
related articles
February 19, 1924: Great Czech director František Vláčil is born
play
play
Vladislav Vančura’s Marketa Lazarová: A medieval epic exploring the possibilities of Czech language
play
play
How the army became a “workshop” for cinema during communism
play
play
Growing Daisies: Second Run DVD helping “unknown” Czechoslovak films find new audiences
featured
The Czech Yugo fan: Daniel Sywala on Czech-Serbian relations and promoting ex-Yugoslavia
Night shift on the Posázavský Pacifik: Train driver Marie Sehnalová
From her grandfather’s suitcase to Vienna’s archives: Radka Šustrová on history without borders
follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram
RSS
most popular
Top 5 cafes in Prague (you might not know about)
play
play
“Russia wants Czechia under its control” warns Foreign Minister Lipavský
10 great souvenirs to take home from Czechia!
play
play
Guy Roberts: Czechia felt truly free in way I hadn’t experienced in US
Czech Links
Czech Foreign Ministry
Czech Ministry of Interior
Czech Centres
CzechTourism
National Museum
National Gallery
Government Portal
Immigration Portal of the Czech Republic
About Radio Prague International
Ways to Listen
Daily news by e-mail
QSL
Who is Who
Radio Prague History
Contact
Reception report
Logo
RSS
Cookies
Personal data
Terms of use
Partners
Radio Romania International
Radio Canada International
Polskie Radio
SWI swissinfo.ch
Radio Taiwan Intl
Follow us
Facebook
X
Youtube
Instagram
Rss
Radio Prague International
© 1997-2025 Radio Prague International