Royal Coat of Arms
Stoke-on-Trent, England - home
of the North Staffordshire Potteries
| back
to index of marks |
Use
of the British Royal Coat of Arms on Pottery Marks
make
selection from the following list:-
|
meaning of the Royal Arms  |
|
pre and post 1837 Arms  |
|
English Pottery Marks using Royal Arms  |
|
American Potteries copying the Royal Arms  |
or
step through page at a time:-
next: meaning of the
Royal Arms
The
Royal Arms may only be used legitimatly by businesses which are holders of a Royal
Warrant. Nowadays Royal Warrants are granted to people or companies who
have regularly supplied goods or services for a minimum of five
consecutive years to members of the Royal Family.
However
in the late 19th and early 20th century many potters who did not have a
Warrant (both in England and also foreign firms) also used the Arms (or
some similar design) as
part of their mark - to gain some sense of importance and value.
In the same way many potters use the name "Royal" as part of
their name or trade mark.
From earliest times
tradesmen and women have served their sovereign by providing goods and
services – from making robes and regalia to repairing roofs and painting
walls.  The first rewards for
this loyal service came in the form of Royal Charters which were granted
to the trade guilds, later known as livery companies. The earliest
recorded Royal Charter was granted to the Weavers’ Company in 1155 by
Henry II.   In 1394 Dick
Whittington helped obtain a Royal Charter for his own Company, the
Mercers, who traded in luxury fabrics.
By the 15th century Royal
tradesmen were recognised by means of a Royal Warrant of Appointment - a
practice that continues to this day.
In the late 18th century
Warrant Holders began displaying the Royal Arms on their premises and
stationery.
However, it was Queen Victoria who ensured Royal Warrants gained the
prestige they enjoy today.  During
her 64 year reign the Queen and her family were responsible for granting
more Royal Warrants than ever before – more than 2000.
Wikipedia: Royal
Warrant of Appointment
next: meaning of the
Royal Arms
| back
to index of marks |
Questions,
comments, contributions? email:  Steve
Birks