Former NBA Player Isaiah Rider Appears In Court And Doesn’t Know Why [Video] - Inquisitr News
News
Celebrity
Entertainment
Politics
Sports
Reading:
Former NBA Player Isaiah Rider Appears In Court And Doesn’t Know Why [Video]
Share
Font ResizerAa
Font ResizerAa
News
Celebrity
Entertainment
Politics
Sports
Follow US
© 2025  Inquisitr Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Sports Former NBA Player Isaiah Rider Appears In Court And Doesn’t Know Why [Video]
Published on: October 6, 2011 at 2:12 PM
By
James Johnson
Isaiah Rider, a former NBA appeared in an Arizona court this week and apparently he had no idea why he was there.
In a video posted on celebrity site   TMZ  the former NBA player didn’t understand why he was locked up on a no-bail hold in Maricopa county for violating his probation from a 2010 arrest. Rider was arrested last year when he attempted to flee from police who were trying to pull him over. Rider was also arrested in 2010 for assaulting his fiancé.
There’s not a lot to say about the situation you just have to see it for yourself:
Surely Isaiah had some type of representation who at least filled him in before he went before a judge. He just seems lost and confused in the video.
It should be noted that he might have actually forgotten what he did wrong this time, aside from his 2010 arrests during his   NBA  career Rider had plenty of run-ins with the law including an incident in which he was charged with fifth-degree assault for kicking the female manager of a sports bar. Rider was also caught using a cloned cell phone to charge calls to another persons bill and he was convicted of misdemeanor marijuana possession. Rider was even arrested for gambling in public in Oakland.
I’m sure If I had all the charges he’s racked up against himself I would be confused about why I was dragged back into court as well.
It’s no wonder his 2009 attempt to return into the NBA failed, who would want to take their chances on this guy.
TAGGED:NBA
Share This Article
Facebook
X
Flipboard
Whatsapp
Whatsapp
Telegram
Copy Link
Share
Follow US
© 2025  Inquisitr Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
About Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
DMCA
Contact
Welcome Back!
Sign in to your account
Username or Email Address
Password
Remember meLost your password?