Contact Us: Offices & Programs - Earthjustice
Skip to content
About Us About Earthjustice Our Team Offices Never Rest Financials Your Donation at Work Career Opportunities Commitment To JusticeOur Work How We Work Our Programs Our Clients Our Stories Victories Press Room En EspañolTake Action Action Center Action Alerts The Action Tip Guide Make a Tribute Gift Manage Monthly Gift Other Ways To GiveDonateSearchWe take on many of the biggest environmental and health challenges of our time and stick with them. The law makes change.Because the earth needs a good lawyer.
Donate
About Us About Earthjustice Our Team Offices Never Rest Financials Your Donation at Work Career Opportunities Commitment To JusticeOur Work How We Work Our Programs Our Clients Our Stories Victories Press Room En EspañolTake Action Action Center Action Alerts The Action Tip Guide Make a Tribute Gift Manage Monthly Gift Other Ways To GiveDonateSearchWe take on many of the biggest environmental and health challenges of our time and stick with them. The law makes change.Because the earth needs a good lawyer.
Our Offices & Programs
The New York office. (Chris Leary for Earthjustice)
Across the country, our network of offices keeps us in close collaboration with the people and places that need us most.
Our team of 200 environmental lawyers focus on distinct legal dockets of regional, national, and international scope — building progress one town, one community, one vast wilderness space, at a time.
Go to a Program
Select an option
Biodiversity Defense
Clean Energy
Community Partnerships
Fossil Fuels
International
Oceans
Policy & Legislation
Sustainable Food & Farming
Toxic Exposure & Health
Tribal Partnerships
Go to a Regional Office
Select an option
Alaska
California
Florida
Gulf
Mid-Pacific
Midwest
Northeast
Northern Rockies
Northwest
Rocky Mountain
Washington, D.C.
Contact Us
Headquarters
50 California St., Ste. 500
San Francisco, CA 94111
General Inquiries
Tel: 1-800-584-6460
Fax: (415) 217-2040
info@earthjustice.org
Media Inquiries
Contact our press team
Contacto de prensa
Legal Assistance
Submit an inquiry
Anchorage, AK
Deputy Managing Attorney Erik Grafe, in Denali National Park (Courtesy of Erik Grafe).
310 K Street.
Suite 508
Anchorage, AK 99501
In this location:
Alaska Regional Office: Defends the wilderness and wildlife of the Arctic from oil and gas drilling, and protects the region’s marine and coastal ecosystems
Bozeman, MT
Bison graze in Yellowstone National Park. Earthjustice's Northern Rockies office has fought to protect wildlife in this region for 25 years. (National Park Service)
1716 W. Babcock St.
P.O. Box 4743
Bozeman, MT 59772-4743
In this location:
Biodiversity Defense: Fights to reshape our relationship to lands, water, and wildlife everywhere by confronting the major drivers of the decline in nature
Northern Rockies Regional Office: Protects intact, magnificent ecosystems that offer a last glimpse of wild lands and wildlife that have been eliminated from most of the world
Chicago, IL
Members of the Earthjustice team in the Chicago office.
311 South Wacker Dr.
Suite 1400
Chicago, IL 60606
In this location:
Clean Energy Program: Ending our reliance on dirty, expensive, and outdated coal-fired power plants; cleaning up the toxic coal ash mess left by utilities throughout the country; and replacing retiring coal plants with clean energy rather than gas
Midwest Regional Office: Litigates on climate and energy issues endemic to our nation’s heartland, and protects the region’s water resources from harmful mining.
Denver, CO
Fall colors in the Rocky Mountains. (Chris Jordan-Bloch / Earthjustice)
633 17th St.
Suite 1600
Denver, CO 80202
In this location:
Rocky Mountain Regional Office: Challenges reckless oil and gas development and off-road vehicle use, and fights to safeguard the region’s precious water resources
Tribal Partnerships Program: Working with Tribes, Native groups, and Indigenous communities to ensure their natural and cultural resources are protected for future generations
Honolulu, HI
The Mid-Pacific Regional Office team.
850 Richards St.
Suite 400
Honolulu, HI 96813
In this location:
Mid-Pacific Regional Office: Restores stream flows, secures protections for native wildlife and habitats, and advances the Aloha State as the nation's clean energy leader
Houston, TX
Sunset on the Gulf of Mexico.
In this location:
Gulf Regional Office: Works to end fossil fuel expansion, protect the region’s precious places and wildlife, transition to clean energy, and drive climate solutions that work for everyone
Juneau, AK
Attorneys in the two locations of the Alaska regional office assemble in Juneau for a planning meeting. (Becca Bowe / Earthjustice)
325 Fourth St.
Juneau, AK 99801
In this location:
Alaska Regional Office: Safeguards our nation’s largest national forest — the Tongass — and the vast wilderness and wildlife of Southeast Alaska from destructive logging and mining
Los Angeles, CA
The Los Angeles office gets ready for the Global Climate Strike. (Linda Rogers / Earthjustice)
707 Wilshire Blvd.
Suite 4300
Los Angeles, CA 90017
In this location:
California Regional Office: Protects the magnificent natural spaces and wildlife in the Golden State and fights to transition the state to a zero-emissions future
Community Partnerships Program: Works hand-in-hand with frontline communities fighting for a safe, just, and healthy environment
Miami, FL
The Miami office marches with Global Climate Strikers. (Laura Arroyo / Earthjustice)
4500 Biscayne Blvd.
Suite 201
Miami, FL 33137
In this location:
Florida Regional Office: Wields the power of the law to protect our waterways and biodiversity, promote a just and reliable transition to clean energy, and defend communities disproportionately burdened by pollution
New York, NY
Earthjustice's New York office. (Chris Leary for Earthjustice)
48 Wall St., 15th Fl.
New York, NY 10005
In this location:
Clean Energy Program: Ending our reliance on dirty, expensive, and outdated coal-fired power plants; cleaning up the toxic coal ash mess left by utilities throughout the country; and replacing retiring coal plants with clean energy rather than gas
Northeast Regional Office: Protecting communities from the impacts of fossil fuels
Sustainable Food & Farming Program: Making our nation’s food system safer and more climate friendly
Toxic Exposure & Health Program: Ensuring all people have safe workplaces, neighborhoods, and schools; access to safe drinking water and food; and live in homes that are free of hazardous chemicals
Philadelphia, PA
Members of Earthjustice's Philadelphia office, during the annual bike challenge competition. (Flora Champenois / Earthjustice)
1617 JFK Blvd.
Suite 2020
Philadelphia, PA 19103
In this location:
Clean Energy Program: Ending our reliance on dirty, expensive, and outdated coal-fired power plants; cleaning up the toxic coal ash mess left by utilities throughout the country; and replacing retiring coal plants with clean energy rather than gas
San Francisco, CA
The reception area at Earthjustice's San Francisco office. (Chris Jordan-Bloch / Earthjustice)
50 California St.
Suite 500
San Francisco, CA 94111
In this location:
California Regional Office: Advances ambitious and innovative climate and energy policies, and protects the magnificent natural spaces and wildlife found in the Golden State
Fossil Fuels Program: Taking on the fossil fuel industry’s efforts to pursue new paths to profit that not only accelerate the climate crisis, but also continue to cause harm to marginalized communities
International Program: Partners with organizations and communities around the world to establish, strengthen, and enforce national and international legal protections for the environment and human health
Oceans Program: Safeguards imperiled marine life, reforms fisheries management, stops the expansion of offshore oil and gas drilling, and increases the resiliency of ocean ecosystems to climate change
Seattle, WA
The marbled murrelet is a shy, robin-sized seabird that feeds at sea and nests only in old-growth forests along the Pacific Coast. (National Park Service)
810 Third Ave.
Suite 610
Seattle, WA 98104
In this location:
Biodiversity Defense: Fights to reshape our relationship to lands, water, and wildlife everywhere by confronting the major drivers of the decline in nature
Northwest Regional Office: Protects the old-growth forests, salmon streams, and people of the Pacific Northwest
Oceans Program: Safeguards imperiled marine life, reforms fisheries management, stops the expansion of offshore oil and gas drilling, and increases the resiliency of ocean ecosystems to climate change
Tribal Partnerships Program: Working with Tribes, Native groups, and Indigenous communities to ensure their natural and cultural resources are protected for future generations
Tallahassee, FL
Florida manatees (Trichechus manatus latirostris) at Crystal River, Florida. (Moment Open / Getty Images)
111 S. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
Tallahassee, FL 32301
In this location:
Florida Regional Office:Wields the power of the law to protect our waterways and biodiversity, promote a just and reliable transition to clean energy, and defend communities disproportionately burdened by pollution
Washington, D.C.
Earthjustice Attorney Jim Pew at the U.S. Supreme Court. (Matt Roth for Earthjustice)
1001 G St. NW
Suite 1000
Washington, D.C. 20001
In this location:
Clean Energy Program: Works at both federal and local levels to break down legal barriers to clean power and to advance equitable access to clean energy
Policy and Legislation: Protects and strengthens our nation’s environmental laws, and prevents legislative attempts to undermine environmental progress
Washington, D.C., Office: Enforces legal standards for clean air and clean water nationwide, and safeguards public health in the Mid-Atlantic region
About
Who We AreEn EspañolCommitment To JusticeBoard of TrusteesAnnual ReportsVictoriesCareer OpportunitiesPrivacy PolicyContactRequest for Legal Assistance
Get Involved
DonateAction CenterEmail & Text AlertsRenew Your SupportBecome a Justice PartnerLegacy Gift PlanningEarthjustice StoreSupporter FAQ
Member Center
Manage Your Monthly GiftManage Your Email SubscriptionsManage Your Postal Mail SubscriptionsUpdate Your Contact InformationView Your Donation History
The Law Makes Change
Stay informed on how we hold accountable those who break our environmental laws.
Sign Up
Follow Earthjustice on Facebook
Follow Earthjustice on Instagram
Follow Earthjustice on Bluesky
Follow Earthjustice on Threads
Follow Earthjustice on YouTube
Follow Earthjustice on TikTok
Follow Earthjustice on LinkedIn
Follow Earthjustice on Reddit
© 2025 Earthjustice. We respect your privacy. Earthjustice is a 501(c)3 nonprofit. Your contribution is tax-deductible. EIN 94-1730465.