The Ostend company | Paulus Swaen Rare Antique Maps & Prints
Join receiving our map lists and exclusief offers     -  Click here →
Welcome, Guest
Sign Up
Sign In
Wish List
My Account
Sign Up
Sign In
Browse Catalog
0
$0
0
Your shopping cart is empty.
BuyNow Gallery
BuyNow Catalog
Invoices & Certificates
FAQ Buying in the BuyNow Gallery
Personal Information
Terms and conditions
Update / Add (shipping) address
Wish List / Virtual Collection
Mailing List
Catalog Archive
FAQ
Interesting articles
Full Client Center
Contact Us
Maps
BuyNow Catalog
Atlases
World
Celestial
Africa
Globes
Americas
Map Types
Asia
Sea Charts
Australia & Oceania
Title pages
Europe
Map Makers & Explorers
Wall Maps
Curated Collection
Highlights
Top Picks
Miscelleneous
BuyNow Catalog
Old Stocks & Bonds
Books
Medieval Manuscripts
Nuremberg Chronicle
Prints - Decorative
Posters / Publicity
Prints - 16-8th C.
East Meets West
Prints -19th C.
Maritime Prints
Prints -  Modern
VOC & Trading Companies
Instruments, Games  & Folding Fans
Search
0
$0
0
Your shopping cart is empty.
Welcome, Guest
Browse Catalog
Wish List
Articles
BuyNow Gallery
Highlights
Mailing List
Sign Up
/
Sign In
Home
Articles about trading companies
The Ostend East-India Company
The Ostend East-India Company
The trade from Ostend in the Austrian Netherlands to Mocha, India, Bengal and China started in 1715. Some private merchants from Antwerp, Ghent, and Ostend were granted charters for the East-India-trade by the Austrian government that had recently come to power in the Southern Netherlands. Between 1715 and 1723, 34
ships sailed from Ostend to China, the Malabar or Coromandel coast,
Surat, Bengal or Mocha. Those expeditions were financed by
different international syndicates composed of Flemish, English,
Dutch and French merchants and bankers. The mutual rivalry between
them, however weighed heavily upon the profits and this resulted in
the foundation of the Ostend East-India Company, chartered by the
Austrian emperor in December 1722. The capital of the company was
fixed at 6 million guilders, composed of 6,000 shares of 1,000
guilders each. It was mainly supplied by the moneyed inhabitants of
Antwerp and Ghent. The directors were chosen out of the rich and
skilled merchants or bankers who had been involved in the private
expeditions. The company also possessed two factories: Cabelon on
the Coromandel coast and Banquibazar in Bengal.
See our Ostend items available for sale
Between 1724 and 1732, 21 company vessels were sent out, mainly
to Canton in China and to Bengal. Thanks to the rise in tea prices,
high profits were made in the China trade. This was a thorn in the
side of the older rival companies, such as the Dutch VOC, the
English EIC and the French CFT. They refused to acknowledge the
Austrian emperor's right to found an East-India company in the
Southern Netherlands and considered the Ostenders interlopers.
International political pressure was put on the emperor and he
finally capitulated. In May 1727 the charter of the company was
suspended for seven years and in March 1731 the second treaty of
Vienna ordered definitive abolition. The flourishing Ostend Company had been sacrificed to the interests of the Austrian dynasty. Between 1728 and 1731 a small number of illegal
expeditions were organized under borrowed flags, but the very last
ships sailing for the company were the two "permission-vessels"
that left in 1732 and were a concession made in the second treaty
of Vienna.
Only a few documents are left because the municipal archives of
Ostend were lost during the Second World War.
The ships
The ships used for the East India trade were generally large
three-masters of the frigate-type, heavily armed and measuring
several hundreds of tons. The vessels used by the Ostenders were of
the same type. Although the period of activity was rather short,
there was already a clear tendency to use larger ships.
The first ships that sailed in 1715-1717 only measured 200 to
250 tons, but the average of 22 private East-Indiamen (1715-1723)
was from 330 to 360 tons. The company took over some of the larger
private vessels and bought a few others, second-hand ships of about
400 tons. From 1725 on the company directors ordered new ships
built in Hamburg and in Ostend. The average size of those vessels
was 600 tons, and it raised the average of the 15 company ships
from 407 to 433 tons. It was only for the illegal expeditions of
1729-1730 that the company again preferred smaller bottoms.
The small Ostend shipyards at first were not able to produce
vessels of that size and so the Ostenders were obliged to look for
their ships abroad. The private merchants bought them mainly in
England. Out of 23 private vessels, 15 came from England against 8
from the Northern Netherlands, and the English preponderance even
becomes larger when we consider that those 15 ships made 25 voyages
between 1715 and 1723, against only 9 voyages for the 8 Dutch
vessels. The English private East-Indiamen were smaller than the
Dutch. The latter averaged around 390 tons, against around 320 tons
for the English. This difference in size seems to have been typical
for both types of ships.
The Sea Routes - Charts and
Navigators
The route the Ostend ships followed was very similar to that of
the other European companies. This is not a surprise since the
first expeditions were often organized under the command of foreign
captains and mates. These officers had already undertaken a few
voyages to the East Indies in English or French service. In this
way, Flemish officers learned to navigate safely around the Cape to
Asia.
There was also foreign influence in the sea rutters and the
charts on board. The Ostenders used a combination of Dutch, English, and French charts and sailing directions. In two journals of
private voyages data were given on the origins of the charts and on
knowledge of navigation problems. The captain of the Mochaman
Stadt Gendt (I 720) attached more value to the observations
of the English hydrographers Thornton and Seller than to the
information on the sea charts of St. Malo. Aboard the same ship,
there was also a chart of the Dutchman Pieter Goos. When another
Mochaman, the Graaf van Lalaing (1721), called at Fayal
after six weeks of sailing from Pernambuco, the captain and the mates
started a discussion on the longitude of the Azores. They found a
difference of 7'45 min. between the dead-reckoning and an
unspecified English chart. The captain gave two possible
explanations: '... de stroom die loopt omtrent de linie
om de west oft dat de cust van Bresil 5 a 6gr. westelicker
liggen volghens de stellingh van de engelse hydrograef
edmund Halley...'. It is remarkable that the Ostenders knew and
used the theory of Edmund Halley on the variation of the compass
and the isogonic lines, while this innovation did not find general
acceptance on board VOC ships until 1740. The tradition of
navigation with the help of foreign sea-charts and rutters
continued on the GIC ships. The company directorate ordered all
maps and navigation instruments from London and Amsterdam. From
England arrived in 1723, apart from East India pilots and charts,
several world maps of Halley, and a copy of Greenville Collins'
Great Britain's Coasting Pilot.
Louis Bemaert, agent of the company in Ostend, bought on the
Dutch market charts of Hendrick Doncker and also 'een nieuwe
generaele wassende paskaert van de gehele werelt by Joannes
Loots tot Amsterdam,"' On the Carolus Sextus (1723)
German versions of Lastman's 'Bescbryvinge van de kunst der
stuer-luyden' and of Gietennaker's 'Vergulden Licbt der
Zee-vaert' traveled to Bengal in the private library of Cobbe,
the first governor of Banquibazar.
Investors
Among the investors was the Moretus family, heirs from the famous Plantin Printing shop
Jonker Joannes Jacobus Moretus (1690-1757), advocate and publishing printer, was a multi-millionaire, one of the richest men in the Southern Netherlands, if not the wealthiest of them all, had a very active share in the formation of the famous ‘Ostend Company’ and was later one of the promoters of the ‘Trieste and Fiume Company’.
Other major investors was Ferdinand Anthoin Baron de Veecquemans, also from Antwerp who held  100 shares and the family Proli in the same city. Other investors were Melchior Breton (Antwerp),
probably Thomas Hall in London, and other merchants in Antwerp.
Share in the Oostendse Compagnie for sale.
Very rare share in the Ostend
Company. Copper engraving and manuscript on paper. 320x 200mm. Upper left-hand corner share number in manuscript. In the top emblem of the Company in copper engraving.
Text: "De Directeurs van de
generale Keijserlijche- Indische compagnie, ordoneren aen hunnen
cassier 'joan Baptist Cogels junior, te ontvangen van De Heer
Ferdinand Anthoin Baron de Veecquemans te Antwerpen de somme
van tweehondert en vijftigh guldens wisselgeldt, voor het eerste
payement sijnder actie van een duijsent guldens in het Capitael van
de Selve compagnie, op de conditien in het Octroij breeder
vermeldt, stellen de quitanfie hier onder, actum in Antwerpen
derthien augustus seventhienhondert dry en twintigh.
Ontvangen van De Heer
Ferdinand Anthoin Baron de Veecquemans de somme van tweehondert
vijftigh guldens wissel gelt voor het eerste paijment ady primo
(1) september 1723 (signatuur) Solvit als boven het tweede
payement 16 december 1723 (signatuur) Solvit als boven d helft van
het derde payement 22: November 1724 (signatuur) Solvit als boven
de heffi van het derde payement 3 July 1725. -"
Price: US $ 2,000.00
References: K.Degryse, in Spiegel
Historiaal, 1973112; J.Undwehr, VOC, page 14-46; N.Laude, La
Compagnie d'Ostende et son activité commerciale au Bengale,
1725-1730; E.Stols, A companhia de Ostende e os Portos Brazileiris.
In: Estudos Hist.S; P.Vandewalle, Oostende ten tijde van de
Oostendse Compagnie, in: Oostende kruispunt van Europa, een
koningklijke stad.
Only a few documents are left
because the municipal archives of Ostend were lost during the
Second World War.
Interesting articles
Articles about Maps
Mapmakers & Explorers
Coloring
Mapping of
Mapping of the Arabian Peninsular
Mapping of Australia
Mapping of Japan
Mapping of Korea
Mapping of the Philippines
Mapping of Taiwan
Mapping of Russia
Mapping of South East Asia and Java.
Mapping the Silk Road
Celestial Charts
Geological maps
Articles about Prints
Articles about trading companies
Gallery
Mailing list
Catalog
Gallery Highlights
Can I buy this item now
Paulus Swaen BuyNow Gallery
FAQ & Answers
Terms and Conditions
Contact Us
Helpful Links
About Us
WHAT IS NEW
The curated collection
WishList
Browse Articles
Articles about Maps
Types of maps
Articles about Prints
What is MetaMap.gallery
Sign-Up to NewsLetterBe the first to get notified about our weekly added new listings, newsletters, and special offers.
Paulus Swaen Rare Antique Maps & Prints
901 North Hercules Avenue, Suite A
Clearwater, FL 33765, USA
Amsterdam, 1075 KJ, Netherlands
Email :
@
Tel. USA: +1 727 687 3298
Tel. NL: +31 (0)20 2255198
©2024 Paulus Swaen Old Maps. All rights reserved.
Our website uses cookies. By continuing, you consent to the use of cookies on your device, unless you have disabled them from your browser.
I Understand