Answers - The Most Trusted Place for Answering Life's Questions
Subjects
Animals & Plants
Arts & Entertainment
Auto
Beauty & Health
Books and Literature
Business
Electronics
Engineering & Technology
Food & Drink
History
Hobbies
Jobs & Education
Law & Government
Math
People & Society
Science
Social Studies
Sports
Travel & Places
Create0Log in
AnswerMarion Merrell Dow Inc. was a pharmaceutical company formed in 1989 from the merger of Marion Laboratories and Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals. It focused on developing and marketing medications, particularly in areas like cardiology and psychiatry. In 1995, it became part of the larger pharmaceutical company, Hoechst Marion Roussel, which later became part of Sanofi. The company contributed to advancements in medicine but is now part of a larger entity.This instant answer was created using AI technology. Learn more about AnswerBot
Search results
Trending Questions
What is a IQ test primarily used for?
What is 7 divided by 55.3?
What is the most effective rooster deterrent method for preventing unwanted rooster behavior in a backyard setting?
How do you know when you need a new power steering pump?
Limousine derives from the French Limousin - Why?
How many volumes are there of The Betrayal Knows My Name?
Where in Walter Wick's Can You See What I See Once Upon a Time are the two dogs?
What is Gaelic for My Father My Blessing?
What is 75 percent off200.00?
What is the difference between 12 and 2?
Why is my Canon AE-1 camera not advancing the film properly?
Why is it called skullbone Tennessee?
How did English become an important language?
Does biofuel contribute to global warming?
How do you type a square root on a gateway laptop?
Does a 92 Ford Crown Vic have a positraction?
How do you install a fuel filter in a Jeep Cherokee?
When Germany began world war 2 in 1939 secret agreement with the USSR allowed soviet troops to?
What achievements did Kush have?
What do you need to get a passport to enter Canada from Mexico?
Still have questions?
Find more answers
Resources
Leaderboard
All Tags
Unanswered
Top Categories
Algebra
Chemistry
Biology
World History
English Language Arts
Psychology
Computer Science
Economics
Product
Community Guidelines
Honor Code
Flashcard Maker
Study Guides
Math Solver
FAQ
Company
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Cookie Policy
IP Issues
Copyright ©2025 Infospace Holdings LLC, A System1 Company. All Rights Reserved. The material on this site can not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with prior written permission of Answers.