Agora
Agora
(2010)
from Johnny Web (Uncle
Scoopy)
I've liked what the film auteur Alejandro Amenábar
has done in the past. Abre Los Ojos (1997) was such a good film that
it prompted Cameron Crowe to remake it in English soon afterward. The
remake (Vanilla Sky, 2001) wasn't particularly successful for various
reasons, but none of those reasons for failure reflected back on
Amenábar. The Others (2001) was a nifty little English-language ghost
story which drew favorable comparisons to The Sixth Sense. Mar adentro,
a 2004 biopic about a quadriplegic who fought for his legal right to
die with dignity, won the Oscar for the best film in a foreign
language. Those three films are each rated at least 7.8 at IMDb, thus
placing their director in the pantheon of greats, a feat made even
more impressive by the fact that he also wrote the scripts and
composed the music for the films, and even did the editing on Mar
adentro.
That filmography seemed to bode well for Agora, an ambitious
film about Hypatia, the famous Alexandrian philosopher and mathematician who
was probably the greatest female intellectual of ancient times.
Unfortunately, this project proved as wrong for Amenábar as Vanilla
Sky was for Cameron Crowe. In his past films Amenábar has never had to
deal with matters requiring scholarly research and historical
accuracy. The true story of the quadriplegic Ramon Sampedro (1940-1998)
took place in modern times, with all the details well established and
documented. The other two films mentioned above were genre efforts, a
sci-fi tale and a ghost story, essentially works of the imagination
which required no special conformity to any details in the real world.
Agora was a whole different
kettle o' crawdads. The common wisdom on Hypatia (hi-PAYSH-yeh) is
based more on legend, literature, and folklore than on reality. It
would be necessary to systematically separate the real from the
fantastical before telling her story, because dozens of generations
and various causes have cobbled her story to suit their personal
agendas. Recreating the world of ancient Alexandria accurately would require sifting
through a lot of dry scholarly texts, and ignoring a lot of
conventional wisdom. Even some very brilliant minds have failed in
this regard. The scientist/storyteller Dr. Carl Sagan, for
example, utterly misreported the circumstances behind the
disappearance of the great library of Alexandria. If the great Sagan failed at a
task, would you feel ambitious enough to give it a shot?
Amenábar was.
He not only failed in this
regard, but failed miserably. In fact, he failed so miserably that it
seemed as if he did no research of any kind, but simply created
characters and times which were 100% fictional, albeit tagged with real
names.
Let's begin with the
destruction of the "Great Library." This film takes on the Sagan meme
that it was destroyed by a fanatical Christian mob in 391 A.D. There
are so many things wrong with that premise that it's difficult to know
where to begin.
The Serapeum, the
building which was taken over by the mob in 391, was not a library at
that time,
but a temple to Serapis, as you may have guessed from the name. The
mob pulled down all the statues dedicated to the ancient gods, but
they didn't burn any books, or at least there is no evidence to
suggest that they did. There were historians, both pagan and
Christian, who lived in Alexandria at the time of the riots, and not a
single one mentions the loss of books. The Christian Socrates
Scholasticus makes no reference to a library or library contents being
destroyed, only to religious objects being destroyed. The pagan author
Eunapius of Sardis witnessed the demolition, and though he detested
Christians, and was a scholar, his account of the Serapeum's
destruction makes no mention of any books. It
seems that the Serapeum had hosted a collection of scrolls at one
time, but the pagan historian Ammianus Marcellinus, writing
about a decade before the riots, indicates that the building's library
function was in the past.
So how was the "Great
Library" really destroyed? Well, to begin with, that great library, as it was
understood by the ancients using the Greek language, referred to the
collection of books, not the building which housed it. The lion's
share of Alexandria's collection was housed in a dedicated building,
but that was not the Serapeum, which was in the Egyptian sector. The
Royal Library was far across town, in the Greek sector, in a building near
the harbor, adjacent to the Musaion. (See the map below).
The collection seems to have disappeared in
stages, with the first and most important tragedy occurring when
Julius Caesar set fire to some ships in 48 B.C.,
a conflagration which spread to the docks, then to the seaside library. That
is Plutarch's version of the story.
Plutarch wrote that account about 150 years after the incident, circa 100 A.D,
and his account may be spurious, but the important fact is
not how the books were destroyed, but the fact that they were gone by
then.
If Plutarch wrote of the great collection as an artifact of the past in 100
A.D., then it could not have been destroyed in 391. Even if we grant
the veracity Plutarch's version, it does not seem to modern scholars that Caesar was
responsible for the complete destruction of the book collection. All
of the evidence indicates that some of the volumes survived and
some of those survivors continued to be housed in the same building, but the collection seems
to have continued to deteriorate over the centuries. As for the
building itself, we do not know precisely when the Royal Library, the
architectural triumph which had once housed the vast collection of
scrolls, was finally reduced to rubble. The most
likely scenario seems to be that it was demolished in the general
destruction that accompanied the wars between Zenobia of Palmyra and
the Roman Emperor Aurelian, circa 270 A.D.
Second, the Roman legions in this film were
dressed like the legions of the time of Augustus, in mufti with which
we are quite familiar from a myriad of films. Unfortunately, this
story took place four centuries later, with the key events occurring
in 391 and 415. Dressing the Roman soldiers like that was roughly
tantamount to making a film about the Iraqi War and showing the
combatants dressed like Henry VIII and battling with matchlocks and
bows. The pictures below show what the Roman soldiers of the 4th
(left) and 5th (right) centuries looked like.
Third, there were innumerable inaccuracies
relating to Hypatia herself, many of them major:
There is absolutely no evidence of any kind to
suggest that Hypatia understood that heavenly bodies moved in
elliptical patterns, as shown in Agora. She may have realized that the
planets moved around the sun, and she may have known some things about
the shape and rotation of the earth, because some ancient astronomers
had proposed heliocentric theories and had even measured the
circumference of the earth with some accuracy. We don't know that she
realized those things, but it is possible that she did. Assuming that
Hypatia had a heliocentric theory and some concept of the Earth's
shape and rotation were suppositions, but at least they were kinda vaguely
plausible suppositions, so I wouldn't be quibbling if the film had
limited its dramatic license to those matters. On the other hand, attributing to her
the ability to calculate the elliptical solution was way beyond the
pale of dramatic license.  Copernicus, writing more than 1100
years later, developed a heliocentric model that explained the
apparent retrograde motion of the planets, but still required incredibly
complicated "epicycle" math because he still envisioned orbital circles
to be the only option, and
had not yet come up with or even imagined the theory of ellipses. It
was Kepler, another 100 years later, who finally had the "eureka"
moment and saw that ellipses would solve the math elegantly.
Hypatia is pictured as having taught at the
Serapeum, and having been present when the Christian mob stormed the
gates, making her escape through a rear entrance guarded by Roman
soldiers, with a few prized volumes clutched to her virginal breast.
The historian Maria Dzielska rebutted this entire scenario clearly in
her monograph "Hypatia of Alexandria," citing several reasons, then
summarizing her arguments in a single direct sentence, "She and her
students could not have been at the Serapeum." In fact, most of
Hypatia's lectures and classes, perhaps all of the ones involving her
regular circle of pupils, occurred at her own house, a place which was
well known to every prominent Alexandrian.
Hypatia is pictured in the film as a martyr for knowledge,
destroyed by religious fanaticism. That's misleading. Kind, level-headed and reasonable, Hypatia was highly
respected throughout the Christian community, as she was by the Jews
and pagans. She had little interest in any rituals for any religion.
Among her pupils were many Christians including two future bishops,
one of whom remained a close friend who corresponded with her for
years. She was killed because she simply got caught in a power
struggle between two Christians, one the local bishop named Cyril, the other the
local prefect named Orestes. The contest turned brutal and Hypatia bet on the wrong
horse, so she ended up dead. It is technically accurate to say that she was killed by a Christian mob,
but one must be careful with the conclusions drawn from that. You could
say the exact same thing about Mussolini, but that would not lead you
to the conclusion that he was a martyr for free thought. Yes, Hypatia's enemies were Christians,
but so were many of her staunchest
supporters. Given her prominence and respect in the city and her
support of Orestes, her religious inclinations were irrelevant to her
fate. Cyril needed to eliminate her, and that would have been true
even if she
had been a Christian. It is misleading to portray her as having died a martyr
for knowledge, or for Hellenism. She wasn't considered a threat to Christianity, just to
"St." Cyril, the
guy who won the local power struggle.
Hypatia was not a beautiful young girl when she
died, as often pictured in legend. The film role was played by Rachel
Weisz, who is a sexy 39. That was a typically romantic "Hollywood"
approach. Modern historian Maria Dzielska reviewed all the relevant
historical evidence and concluded that the real Hypatia was probably
about 65 when she died. Furthermore, there is no reason to believe the
film's portrayal of her being strangled by a sympathetic friend before
the ugly mob could kill her in nasty and painful ways. That is a pure
fictionalization. It certainly has no historical justification, and I
can see no dramatic justification either.
Setting aside the history, I did like some
elements of the film. It looks great and I enjoyed, for example, the
overhead bird's-eye-view shots which allow the viewer to get the
proper perspective on where people were relative to other people and
city landmarks. But I just found the film so irritating in its
manipulation of fact to sell its perspective that I couldn't enjoy it
the way I might have if it had simply admitted it was just an
entertainment picture like Gladiator.
Except, of course, that it isn't really very
entertaining.
NO DVD INFO Yet
The link to the right
leads to a monograph on Hypatia written by a professional
historian.
NUDITY REPORT
Rachel Weisz shows her bottom in a bath scene.
She looks great, slimmer and more toned than she has ever been
before.
She is later stripped naked by the crowd, but
that scene consists of distance shots and strategic cutaways.
The
Critics Vote ...
No graded major reviews online.
The People
Vote ...
IMDB summary.
IMDb voters score it 7.4/10
Not yet released in North
America
The meaning of the IMDb
score: 7.5 usually indicates a level of
excellence equivalent to about three and a half stars
from the critics. 6.0 usually indicates lukewarm
watchability, comparable to approximately two and a half stars
from the critics. The fives are generally not
worthwhile unless they are really your kind of
material, equivalent to about a two star rating from the critics,
or a C- from our system.
Films rated below five are generally awful even if you
like that kind of film - this score is roughly equivalent to  one
and a half stars from the critics or a D on our scale. (Possibly even less,
depending on just how far below five the rating
is.Our own
guideline:
A means the movie is so good it
will appeal to you even if you hate the genre.
B means the movie is not
good enough to win you over if you hate the
genre, but is good enough to do so if you have an
open mind about this type of film. Any film rated B- or better
is recommended for just about anyone. In order to rate at
least a B-, a film should be both a critical and commercial
success. Exceptions: (1) We will occasionally rate a film B- with
good popular acceptance and bad reviews, if we believe the
critics have severely underrated a film. (2) We may also
assign a B- or better to a well-reviewed film which did not do well at the
box office if we feel that the fault lay in the marketing of
the film, and that the film might have been a hit if people
had known about it. (Like, for example, The Waterdance.)
C+ means it has no crossover appeal, but
will be considered excellent by people who enjoy this kind of
movie. If this is your kind of movie, a C+ and an A are
indistinguishable to you.
C
means it is competent, but uninspired genre fare. People who
like this kind of movie will think it satisfactory. Others
probably will not.
C- indicates that it we found it to
be a poor movie, but genre addicts find it watchable. Any film
rated C- or better is recommended for fans of that type of
film, but films with this rating should be approached with
caution by mainstream audiences, who may find them incompetent
or repulsive or both. If this is NOT your kind of movie, a C-
and an E are indistinguishable to you.
D means you'll hate it even if you
like the genre.
We don't score films below C- that
often, because we like movies and we think that most of them
have at least a solid niche audience. Now that you know that,
you should have serious reservations about any movie below C-.
Films rated below C- generally have both bad reviews and poor
popular acceptance.
E
means that you'll hate it even if
you love the genre.
F
means that the film is not only unappealing
across-the-board, but technically inept as well.
Based on this description, this
film is a C-. Boring, long-winded, and inaccurate, it cannot
provide any content worthy of its superior production values.
Return to
the Movie House home page