James Couper Wright - Biography
Skip to Content (Press Enter)
askART
Toggle navigationMenu
askART
Toggle navigationSearch
X
Artists listed by last name:
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ#
Search by:
Recent Auctions
Art for Sale
Advanced Artist Search
Auction RecordsSince 1987
Upcoming at auction
Search by Artist
Sample Auction Records
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Sample Sales Stats
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Sample Artist Signatures
Cy Twombly
Georgia O'Keeffe
Andrew Wyeth
Ed Ruscha
Camille Pissarro
Help / Contact Us
Research
Search Artists
Search Art for Sale
Search Auctions
Search Auction Houses
Search Galleries / Dealers
Search Museums
Upcoming at Auction
What's my art worth?
Essays
Regional Interests
Artist Groups
Topics
Art Styles
Mediums
Record Stats
Highest auction prices
Record prices by sq inch
Art Glossary
Biographies - write a bio!
Help / Contact Us
Services
Sign Up
Auction Alerts (free)
For Individuals
For Dealers / Galleries
For Auction Houses
For Institutions
Institutions
Museums
Libraries / Schools
Auction Listing Services
Ads on askART
Homepage ads
Artist Pages: Featured Ad
Artist Pages: Art for Sale
Artist Pages: Art Wanted
Alphabet Pages
Help / Contact Us
Subscribe
Sign In
X
Whoa, you've got an older browser! (Or, we've got a glitch...) For a better experience, we recommend a newer browser.
Ok, hide this
Submit a bio
Artist Biography & FactsJames Couper Wright
Auction RecordsLots (21)
For Sale (0)
Bio/Info
Free
Alerts
Upcoming (0)
Wanted (0)
Related Artists (24)
Pricing my art
Charts (6)
Dealers (0)
Signatures (4)
Auction RecordsLots (21)
Sale / Wanted (0)
Free
Alerts
Bio/Info
RelatedMore Artists (24)
Pricing my art
Charts (6)
Signatures (4)
James Couper Wright (1906 - 1969) was active/lived in California.  James Wright is known for Still life, landscape, marine-genre.Born in Kirkwall, Scotland on March 21, 1906.  Wright studied at Edinburgh College of Art, graduating with top honors and scholarships for further art study in Europe.  Following his art studies, he came to the U.S. about 1930. After working for seven years in Santa Barbara, he settled in Pasadena where he taught at City College.  During the 1930s his still lifes and landscapes were considered bold and modern and garnered 48 awards.  Wright died in Los Angeles on Dec. 25, 1969. Exh:  LA AA, 1924-53; Pasadena Society of Artists, 1930s; Calif. WC Society, 1931-56; Ebell Club (LA), 1933; SFMA, 1935; LACMA, 1936; GGIE, 1939; Pottinger Gallery (Pasadena), 1939; City Hall (LA), 1951 Palos Verdes AA, 1953.  In:  U.S. Custom House (LA); Oakland Museum; LACMA; SFMA; Santa Barbara Museum; San Diego Museum; Pasadena Museum.Source: Edan Hughes, "Artists in California, 1786-1940"Who's Who in American Art 1936-70; California Arts and Architecture list, 1932; Southern California Artists (Nancy Moure); So. Calif Artists 1890-1940.Nearly 20,000 biographies can be found in Artists in California 1786-1940 by Edan Hughes and is available for sale ($150). For a full book description and order information please click here.
...  [Displaying 1333 of 2127 characters.]
Artist bio
Artist auction records.  askART's database currently holds 21 auction lots for James Couper Wright (of which
19 auction records sold and 0 are upcoming at auction.)
Artist artworks for sale and wanted.  There are 0
artworks for sale on our website by galleries and art dealers
.  There are 0
galleries and art dealers listing works of art by James Couper Wright as either "Wanted" or "For Sale"
.
Research resources.  askART lists James Couper Wright in 0 of its research Essays.
James Couper Wright has 4 artist signature examples available in our database.
Similar artists.  There are 24 similar (related) artists for James Couper Wright available:
Lee Blair,  Fritz Wilhelm Anton Kocher,  Alexander Ignatiev,  Harold Gretzner,  Dorothy Sklar,  Charles Payzant,  Frank Tolles Chamberlin,  William Sandorhaji Darling,  Robert Earle Wood,  Norman St Clair,  Dan (Daniel Stookey) Lutz,  Joseph Frey,  Jade Fon,  Erle Loran,  Edward Horace Nicholson,  George Booth Root Post,  Ben Abril,  Paul Conner,  William Krehm,  Phil Dike,  Maurice George Logan,  Milford Zornes,  Joane Cromwell,  Emil Kosa Jr
Sales Stats.
21 auction records.
Copyright © 1999-2025 askART.com and underlying auction houses. All Rights Reserved. Digital copying of these images and content strictly prohibited; violators will be subject to the law including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.
Facts about James Couper Wright
Biographies
Museums
Publications
Keywords
James Couper Wright
Born:  1906 - Kirkwall, Orkney Islands, Scotland
Died:   1969 - Los Angeles
Known for:  Still life, landscape, marine-genre
''Fish Harbor, San Pedro''
Art images copyright© of artist or assignee
Born in Kirkwall, Scotland on March 21, 1906.  Wright studied at Edinburgh College of Art, graduating with top honors and scholarships for further art study in Europe.  Following his art studies, he came to the U.S. about 1930. After working for seven years in Santa Barbara, he settled in Pasadena where he taught at City College.  During the 1930s his still lifes and landscapes were considered bold and modern and garnered 48 awards.  Wright died in Los Angeles on Dec. 25, 1969. Exh:  LA AA, 1924-53; Pasadena Society of Artists, 1930s; Calif. WC Society, 1931-56; Ebell Club (LA), 1933; SFMA, 1935; LACMA, 1936; GGIE, 1939; Pottinger Gallery (Pasadena), 1939; City Hall (LA), 1951 Palos Verdes AA, 1953.  In:  U.S. Custom House (LA); Oakland MusSource: Edan Hughes, "Artists in California, 1786-1940"Who's Who in American Art 1936-70; California Arts and Architecture list, 1932; Southern California Artists (Nancy Moure); So. Calif Artists 1890-1940.Nearly 20,000 biographies can be found in Artists in California 1786-1940 by Edan Hughes and is available for sale ($150). For a full book description and order information please click here.  ...  Displaying 1259 of 2127 characters.
Subscriber Members, please Sign In for artist biographies and for all services.  For non-paying users, good news! Full text bios for all artists are available every Friday.
If you are not currently a member, please See Details about membership.
Contribute to Developing the Biography for James Couper Wright
×
Please note: Artists not classified as American in our database may have limited biographical data compared to the extensive information about American artists.
Creating biographies or improving upon them is a work in progress, and we welcome information from our knowledgeable viewers.
If you feel you have worthwhile information you would like to contribute, the following means of submission is the most efficient. We welcome your involvement!
1.  For Premier Dealers and museums already
registered with askART your best approach is to log in, choose the artist (once
he/she is in your list of artists), and submit your biography there. If you are
a dealer or museum not currently registered, please
click here to register, and then you may select your artist and submit
a biography.
2.  For all others who have useful information
about this artist, please email the information to
registrar@askart.com. Please note: All biographies will be fully
viewable on Fridays, but the rest of the week biographies are available only to
subscribers.
Biography Guidelines
When submitting biographical information, we appreciate your consideration of
the following:
Please keep in mind that askART is not a promotional site, and accordingly
biographical information should not be worded for purposes of 'advertising' an
artist.
Our site is about PAINTERS, SCULPTORS, and ILLUSTRATORS. If you do not know a great deal about the
artist, but have noteworthy information to share, we would welcome you to send
it also to registrar@askart.com. It
is rewarding for all of us to see artists' files grow, and others may be eager
to supplement what you have provided.
Non-Dealers and Museums:
Please introduce your information as follows: "The following biographical
information has been provided by Jane Doe, the niece of the artist."
Dealers and Museums will be automatically credited with a link to their
sites.
Just the facts, please. Our editors are trained to
delete any hype or advertising verbiage such as “most famous,”
“internationally renowned,” “extraordinarily beautiful works.”
If you do not know a great deal about the artist,
answer as many of the following questions as you can. Other persons, seeing
your entry, often add to the data. This is how many of the biographies
grow.
Please include in your biography answers to as
many of the following questions as possible:
What are the subjects and styles (and other distinctive
characteristics) for which the artist’s work is best known?
Is the artist identified with any particular art movements, or
artists, who influenced his or her work?
Where, when, and under whom did the artist receive education and
training?
Can you provide all relevant personal background
information on the artist?
In which Art Organizations was the artist a member?
Can you provide a list of all major museum and artist
association exhibitions? (excluding commercial art galleries).
What awards or other recognition did the artist win?
What museums (name, city, and state) currently hold
works by the artist in their permanent collections?
Required: What are the sources for your
information? For books, list title, author, date of publication. (Optional:
cite number of pages and yes/no if there are color images.) For magazine
articles, cite title of article, author, title of publication, date, and page
number if possible.
Required: the name of the person submitting the
information.
Dealer Note: Please enter books, periodicals and museum
references in the space provided. Do not combine book information with
biography.
There are many strong biographies that you may refer to on our website, such as
Cecilia Beaux, Edward Hopper, and Paul Sample. Please do not submit biographies
with minimal facts or excessively promotional writing such as the following
(unusable) wording:
What NOT to send:
"The artist John Doe is the quintessential master
of light, color, and scene. His brilliant canvases are full of feeling, where
love can be felt through all the senses. Through his skillful brushwork, and
drawing from his life experiences, he creates images where the viewer feels he
has truly become one with the subject. Doe's paintings are sure to be sought by
the discriminating collector. I/we have numerous spectacular works by Doe
available for sale."
We appreciate your participation in askART. If you have any questions
about submitting biographies, please send them to registrar@askart.com
Share an image of the Artist.
Copyright© 2000-2025 askART All Rights Reserved®   |   askART is a registered trademark   |Site Terms
Good news! We do not share your data or cookies with 3rd parties for their ads or markerting!  Privacy Policy
Ok, hide this
Top