The Political Graveyard: St. Louis County, Minn.
PoliticalGraveyard.com
St. Louis CountyMinnesota
TPG Home
County
Names
Votes
Parties
Consuls
Born
Lived
Died
Buried
Search
St. Louis County information, links, and
neighbors
St. Louis County information:
Population: 200,231 (2020); 200,226 (2010);
200,528 (2000); 198,213 (1990)
Land area 6,226 square miles.
County seat: Duluth
Links:
St. Louis County official web
site.
Wikipedia
article on St. Louis County
St.
Louis County Courthouse images from postcards at CourthouseHistory.com
Capital
Impact: St. Louis County -- officials, addresses, and political,
economic, education data
St. Louis County
MNGenWeb page -- genealogical, historical information and
queries(if this link doesn't work, find the new one through the
USGenWeb national
site).
Neighboring areas:
North: Ontario,
Canada
East: Lake
County
Southeast: Lake
Superior; Douglas County,
Wis.
South: Carlton
County
Southwest: Aitkin
County
West: Itasca
County
Northwest: Koochiching
County
"Enjoy the hospitable entertainment of a
political graveyard."
Henry L. Clinton, Apollo Hall, New York City, February 3, 1872
The Political Graveyard
is a web site about U.S. political history and cemeteries.
Founded in 1996, it is the Internet's most comprehensive free source
for American political biography, listing 338,260
politicians, living and dead.
The coverage of this site includes (1) the President, Vice President,
members of Congress, elected state and territorial officeholders in
all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories; and
the chief elected official, typically the mayor, of qualifying
municipalities; (2) candidates at election, including primaries, for
any of the above; (3) all federal judges and all state appellate
judges; (4) certain federal officials, including the federal cabinet,
diplomatic chiefs of mission, consuls, U.S. district attorneys,
collectors of customs and internal revenue, members of major
federal commissions; and political appointee (pre-1969) postmasters
of qualifying communities; (5) state and national political party
officials, including delegates, alternate delegates, and other
participants in national party nominating conventions;
(6) Americans who served as "honorary" consuls for other nations
before 1950. Note: municipalities or communities "qualify",
for Political Graveyard purposes, if they
have at least half a million person-years of history, inclusive of
predecessor, successor, and merged entities.
The listings are incomplete; development of the database
is a continually ongoing project.
Information on this page — and on all other pages of this
site — is believed to be accurate, but is not
guaranteed.  Users are advised to check with other sources
before relying on any information here.
The official URL for this page is: https://politicalgraveyard.com/geo/MN/SL.html.
Links to this or any other Political Graveyard page
are welcome, but specific page addresses may sometimes
change as the site develops.
If you are searching for a specific named individual, try the
alphabetical index of
politicians.
Copyright notices: (1) Facts are not subject to copyright; see Feist
v. Rural Telephone. (2) Politician portraits displayed on this site
are 70-pixel-wide monochrome thumbnail images, which I believe to
constitute fair use under applicable copyright law. Where
possible, each image is linked to its online source. However,
requests from owners of copyrighted images to delete them from this
site are honored.  (3) Original material, programming, selection and
arrangement are © 1996-2025 Lawrence Kestenbaum.
(4) This work is also licensed for free non-commercial re-use, with
attribution, under a Creative Commons
License.
What is a "political graveyard"?  See Political
Dictionary; Urban
Dictionary.
Site information: The Political Graveyard is created and maintained
by Lawrence Kestenbaum, who is solely responsible for its structure
and content. — The mailing address is The Political Graveyard,
P.O. Box 2563, Ann Arbor MI 48106. — This site is hosted by
HDLmi.com. —
The Political Graveyard opened on July 1, 1996;
the last full revision was done on
February 17, 2025.
