Lloyd's Auto Sales :: Used BHPH Cars Hot Springs AR, Bad Credit Car Loans Hot Springs, In House Auto Financing Bryant AR, Subprime Credit Auto Financing Maumelle AR, Used BHPH Cars Garland County AR, Used BHPH Trucks Malvern AR, Used BHPH SUVs Arkadelphia AR, Used BHPH Vans Be
View Locations
Lloyd's Auto Sales
1814 Albert Pike Rd., Hot Springs, AR 71913
PHONE
Phone: (501) 623-1717
Menu
Home
About Us
Testimonials
Write a Review
Feedback and Complaints
FAQ
Inventory
Inventory
All Inventory (118)
Makes
Acura (2)
Chevrolet (12)
Chrysler (1)
Dodge (10)
Ford (24)
GMC (2)
Honda (9)
Hyundai (3)
Jeep (13)
Kia (1)
Lexus (1)
Mazda (1)
Mitsubishi (1)
Nissan (11)
RAM (3)
Scion (1)
Subaru (5)
Toyota (18)
Body Type
Convertible (1)
Coupe (4)
Hatchback (2)
Pickup Truck (28)
Sedan (28)
SUV (41)
Van/Minivan (6)
Wagon (5)
Years
1999 (1)
2002 (1)
2003 (4)
2004 (2)
2005 (5)
2006 (5)
2007 (3)
2008 (9)
2009 (7)
2010 (9)
2011 (11)
2012 (11)
2013 (10)
2014 (11)
2015 (12)
2016 (5)
2017 (6)
2018 (5)
2019 (1)
Services
Find a Vehicle
Book Test-Drive
Sell Your Auto
Refer a Friend
Get Approved
Contact Us
Hours / Directions
Payments
Company Info
Staff Bios
Careers
Second Chance Scholarship
Privacy Policy
Blog
Welcome toLloyd's Auto Sales
No credit check!
Get Pre-Approved!
Financing Options
We have flexible financing options for all credit types!
Get Approved Now!
Buy Here, Pay Here!
Bad, bruised, or no credit... No problem!
Apply Online Now!
Looking for a Vehicle?
Check out our wide selection of inventory today!
Browse Our Inventory!
Don't Just Take OUR Word For It...
Read what our happy customers have to say about us!
View Testimonials!
We Value Your Opinion!
Tell us how we're doing!
Submit Your Feedback!
Featured Inventory
Check out some of our new arrivals!
2014 Dodge Charger SE
Call For Price
2013 Ford Fiesta SE Sedan
Call For Price
2014 Ford Fiesta SE Hatchback
Call For Price
2012 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Rubicon 4WD
Call For Price
2009 Dodge Challenger R/T
Call For Price
2007 Ford Explorer Sport Trac Limited 4.6L 4WD
Call For Price
2013 Dodge Grand Caravan R/T
Call For Price
2011 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Sport 4WD
Call For Price
2005 Dodge Ram 1500 ST Long Bed 2WD
Call For Price
2014 Ford Mustang V6 Coupe
Call For Price
2014 RAM 2500 ST Crew Cab SWB 2WD
Call For Price
2018 Jeep Renegade Latitude 4WD
Call For Price
2017 GMC Yukon XL Denali 2WD
Call For Price
2017 Ford Escape S FWD
Call For Price
2008 Lexus ES 350 Sedan
Call For Price
2012 Chevrolet Camaro Coupe 1LT
Call For Price
2009 Honda Civic LX Sedan 5-Speed AT
Call For Price
2006 Ford Mustang GT Deluxe Coupe
Call For Price
2016 Mitsubishi Outlander ES 2WD
Call For Price
2011 Toyota Sienna Limited 7-Pass V6
Call For Price
2010 Ford Mustang V6 Convertible
Call For Price
2012 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Sahara 4WD
Call For Price
2013 RAM 1500 SLT Quad Cab 2WD
Call For Price
2008 Toyota RAV4 Limited I4 2WD
Call For Price
2010 Toyota RAV4 Base I4 2WD
Call For Price
2011 Toyota Camry SE 6-Spd MT
Call For Price
2008 Scion xB Wagon
Call For Price
2013 Subaru Outback 2.5i Premium
Call For Price
2015 Chevrolet Sonic LTZ Auto Sedan
Call For Price
2017 Kia Optima LX
Call For Price
2006 Honda Ridgeline RTL
Call For Price
2015 Hyundai Sonata ECO
Call For Price
2003 Ford Ranger Edge Short Bed 2WD
Call For Price
2014 Dodge Avenger SE
Call For Price
2019 Nissan Sentra S CVT
Call For Price
2011 Toyota Yaris Sedan 4-Speed AT
Call For Price
2014 Toyota Prius Four
Call For Price
2007 Nissan Armada LE 4WD
Call For Price
2011 Honda CR-V EX-L 4WD 5-Speed AT
Call For Price
2011 Toyota RAV4 Limited V6 2WD
Call For Price
2015 Jeep Cherokee Sport FWD
Call For Price
2011 Toyota Camry SE 6-Spd MT
Call For Price
2002 Jeep Wrangler X
Call For Price
2007 Nissan Xterra OR 4WD
Call For Price
2013 Subaru Forester 2.5X Limited
Call For Price
2015 Jeep Renegade Trailhawk
Call For Price
2011 Nissan Titan SV Crew Cab 2WD
Call For Price
2006 Dodge Dakota SLT Quad Cab 2WD
Call For Price
2018 Ford Focus SE Sedan
Call For Price
2011 Honda Pilot EX-L 4WD 5-Spd AT
Call For Price
View All Inventory!
Why buy from us?
Here are just a few of the reasons...
Quality Pre-Owned Vehicles
Browse our great selection of quality-inspected pre-owned vehicles!/Used
Browse Inventory
Try Before You Buy Today
Schedule an appointment to test drive any of our vehicles!
Schedule Test Drive
Convenient Online Payments
Making a payment is easy using our convenient online payment system!
Make A Payment
We’re Here To Help
We care about our customers! Please reach out to us at any time with questions.
Contact Us
Welcome To Lloyd's Auto Sales!
Thanks for stopping by!
Buy here pay here is the system we use here at Lloyd's Auto Sales. To put it simply, it allows us to completely eliminate the middleman when it comes time to get you financed for the vehicle you want. No banks, no credit unions, just us.
When other dealerships say NO, we say YES. We work for you, not the banks, and we want to get you into a car regardless of your credit situation. We build our loans to fit right into your budget.
Lloyd's Auto Sales wants to help you rebuild your credit. Let us get you financed right here in Hot Springs, where we serve all of Arkansas.
Welcome To Lloyd's Auto Sales!
Thanks for stopping by!
Buy here pay here is the system we use here at Lloyd's Auto Sales. To put it simply, it allows us to completely eliminate the middleman when it comes time to get you financed for the vehicle you want. No banks, no credit unions, just us.
When other dealerships say NO, we say YES. We work for you, not the banks, and we want to get you into a car regardless of your credit situation. We build our loans to fit right into your budget.
Lloyd's Auto Sales wants to help you rebuild your credit. Let us get you financed right here in Hot Springs, where we serve all of Arkansas.
Lloyd's Auto Sales
2.74      93 Reviews
View All Testimonials
Teresa Hall
This will be my second car from Lloyd's and they are so helpful. I really enjoyed the experience.
Jennifer Marie
Grateful they were able to get me into a vehicle !!
GG Walker
5 STARS!
Ari B
bought my first car here experience was amazing!! not every car is perfect keep in mind these are used cars i would always recommend a honda or toyota...
Patricia Godwin
I've been buying car from them for a few years now... definitely will go back when in need of another car
C Dani
Charles is the man to see. He came recommended and he helped me get my new car yesterday. I've been looking for a long time and finally found the one....
Amanda Swanger
I bought a vehicle from Lloyd's yesterday. Charles my salesman, Dena, and Lloyd's staff made me feel right at home. They took care of all my concerns ...
Melissa  Lumley
Charles is the bomb! It didn't even seem like we was buying a car. Everything was smooth and satisfying. Never have I had a car sale go this easy. Tha...
Jimmy Brown
Great folks. Honest and friendly! Do business here if you're looking for an automobile!
Tricia Estes
Charles has sold me 2 vehicles and thanks to loyd whom works out the best deals n works around w famlies appreciate and will,send ppl your way appreci...
Justyce  Brown
Very good experience especially for purchasing my first car. Got the car I love, reasonable payments, and they worked with what I wanted regardless of...
J Phil
My experience with Lloyd's started off rocky due to the failure of the car I bought. Over a period of time, Lloyd's made my deal right! I recommend Ll...
Beverly  Harmon
As an adult woman, I had yet to ever buy a car alone. After two rounds of cancer, My credit is not optimum. The staff was so kind, not at all stressfu...
Mindy Stuart
Bill was great!! He was very patient with me as I'm not 1 to make a quick decision..Mr Lloyd was involved in our sales also he is a super nice man!! G...
Ruby Sutton
Awesome service!
Kylie Marie
Repeat customer! Very satisfied with my purchase from Jim! Lloyd’s auto sales is a great business and they have fantastic customer service! I left t...
Sam and Heather  Mitchell
Lloyd’s is a great dealership they took great care me when I was in bad need of a truck. Trader my other truck in and now I’m very happy with my c...
Wanda Keisler
Thanks to our salesman Charles we traded the 3rd vehicle we bought from Lloyd's and bought our 5th vehicle from Lloyd's. Quick service and friendly st...
Stella  Fries
I bought a 2005 mini van years ago. It's paid off. They gave me a list of vehicles to look at that I could afford. It was over 100 degrees that day I ...
Bianca Jimerson
Jim did awesome with staying consistent and keeping his word with everything he said . When I 1st called he said “we care if you can pay your bills ...
Colleen Adair
I've had two cars from Lloyds and they have nothing but wonderful. The entire contacting process was quick and easy everything was explained and easy ...
Bonnie Staton
I would like to thank Lloyd's for my recent purchase I have been a customer for going on ten years
I have delt  with other sales people in the Hot Sp...
Grady and Brittany  Mauldin
I got a car Thursday from Chuck my salesman, got us into the car we wanted. He was very nice and understandable to our situation. We are very satisfie...
Rasta Seeds
Bought a few cars from here in the past. Have had no problems at all. Quick and easy, chill salesman. I recommend heading over if your looking.
Justin  Erickson
Great customer service and were exfremely flexible to make the deal. Couldn't of been happier about my decision to buy at Lloyd's Auto Sales!
Connie  Stell
If you going to buy a car go to lloyd's there great people who will help you get in a ride and everybody is so sweet
Madison Danielle
Brian was the sales man that greeted us in the parking lot. Very open, caring man. We were looking for a reliable vehicle that wasn’t going to break...
Joshua Sheets
I purchased a 2008 Toyota Camry and I got a very good deal and it is a very nice vehicle. I would definitely recommend this dealership and the car sal...
Emma Young
Bill took great care of me! All of their vehicles are nice  I just lucked out with a great salesman. He listened to what I needed and made sure I got ...
Melisss Gayfield
It was a very good experience. The people are super nice and helpful. If your looking for a vehicle I highly recommend Lloyds. They will take good car...
Jennifer Woodall
We had such a wonderful experience at Lloyd's. Jim, our salesman, and the ladies in the office were so helpful.  I got exactly what I wanted for a gre...
Anthonyn Niccum
Great place to get a car awesome service and great friendly people got me in an out  and into a great car thanks Lloyds auto
Ivan Torrence
I purchased a Ford Expedition from Lloyd’s auto sales in Hot Springs, AR., in late November, 2020. The entire experience was perfect!  The vehicle h...
Mike Jennings
We bought a car from Lloyd's in May 2016. It was a good car, but it had a lot of miles on it, and the engine finally gave up the ghost. We still owed ...
Andrea Brynnan
Just bought a car from here! Randall did an exceptionally good job at helping us find what we needed and working with us on what we could afford! I co...
Lisa Putnam
I recommend Lloyd's to everyone and anyone wanting to buy a used car. There you will find  quality used cars at affordable prices and everyone is grea...
Steven Dodge
Bill was very nice and they worked with mean the down payment and he treated me like he has known me all my life. I will come back if I need another t...
BlindN Blurry
My salesman was Mr. Randall. I didnt feel lied to or bamboozled so that's great and also everything was smooth. I recommend Loyds to anyone. I am 21 y...
Brian Manasco
Have purchased four automobiles from Lloyds over yrs.  Relaxed and easy to work with place and sales person Charles Utt great to work with.    Very ha...
Heather Ross
My husband Danny and myself couldn’t be more pleased by the customer service, friendliness, and just down right hospitality of EVERYBODY we had the ...
Bonnie Buller
Lloyd's is by far with out a doubt the best  auto dealership hands down. We went in a little lower on funds then we wanted to. And we had to problem l...
Misty Owens
I would HIGHLY recommend Lloyd’s. I love how he makes me feel like family rather than just another customer. He gave me a shot when no one else woul...
David Philpott
Lloyd's is always a good choice. If you're like me and your credit is less than stellar, they can help you put it back on track. I've bought 5 cars th...
Matthew  Butler
It was simple and easy for me to get my first car. I was glad I was able to be in a nice friendly environment without them talking down to me cause of...
Joseph Saccheri-McGlothlin
The BEST car buying experience  in Hot Springs for me and my family after a multitude of walks and bus rides to essentially every dealership.  Every e...
Sheri Swiger
Affordable and Friendly. Lloyd’s worked with me on what I could afford to put down. Jim is very personable.
Michael  Simmons
Charles utt and Brain was an awesome rep got me into the ride I wanted no Hassel and even got my payments below what I was expecting would recommend L...
Mama June
Lloyds auto is amazing. They work with almost anyone that’s trying to buy a vehicle. My experience with them was great. I got the vehicle I wanted. ...
Nic Mans
Wild Bill was so helpful when it came to me getting my car he listen to my needs of an SUV and was okay taking the time to show me cars I went to 27 o...
Charlotte Earvin
The staff is very friendly and helpful. Tammy was amazing wonderful woman. She did all she could to make sure I left with a car. Definently would reco...
Jamie Richard
I was not looking to buy my old man was. He had already bought to cars from them in the past. When I tell you just by looking and standing it was a ve...
Katharine Rickman
Me and my husband have gotten 2 cars from Llyods but my son got his first car from there last week. Llyods went above and beyond for us to help get hi...
Karla Wedge
Everyone at Lloyd's was super friendly and very helpful!!! I would recommend anyone purchasing a vehicle go see them!! Shout out to Bill (the salesman...
Misty Guerin
I visited all of the Pre-Owned lots within a week and Lloyd's was the most professional and the most accommodating by Far.  A NOTCH ABOVE THE REST.  D...
Kristofor DeAngelis
Paul Petz
Best Car buying experience ever!
Tabitha  Kelems
Best car buying experience that I have ever had.
Dora  Rompel
They have gone beyond what is expected of helping people!
Brenda Talbert
I am so thankful for Sherrie, Wild Bill, Lloyd. Because of them I'm in a 2007 Mustang.  Thanks Brenda
William Sutton
sales rep very respectful and helpful in all needs
Brittney Santos
Jim is awesome
Marlene Kirby
Jim Adair was very helpful, quick and easy to talk with, generally very cool and fun to be around
Alyssa  Brewer
I will never shop anywhere else ever again. Thank you sooooo very much, I love my car.
Derek Phillips
You guys are the best! If anyone is looking for a car, go to Lloyd's.
Lacey  Herring
Jim, you are the man! Thank you again for all of your help.
Briggitt Childers
This was my 2nd time to buy.  My family has bought from Lloyd's for years
Gidzipp Williams
Bill was very nice and helpful guy. He got us in a vehicle today. I'll be sending people there way. Very excellent place. Everyone was very nice.
Richard Hawkins
Charles was very helpful, patient and very understanding.  will be working with him in the near future again.  I'm very pleased -Thanks Again :)
Taleshia Hamilton
Good peoples very respectful, nice and he took good care of us.
Burl Moore
Renee did a fantastic job.  One of the best car salesman!
Karla Marina
Jim was so helpful he listened to me and got me exactly what I wanted!
Nikita Rice
Jim was awesome! He wasn't pushy at all. He was really nice. I won't go to another dealer.
Mark  White
great experience
Conner Jackson
beautiful truck, great people
David & Jennifer Jones
We tried shopping around at 3 other dealerships, and I ended up getting approved at Lloyd's. Great job guys.
Lee Crawford
I wouldn't buy another vehicle anywhere else nor from any other salesman
Kathi Ledbetter
This is my 3rd car from Lloyd's. Dont go anywhere else, go to Lloyds first, they will take great care of you.
Phillip Childs
Great place to buy a car!!
Octavia  Holmes
very friendly and accomidating .  We are very pleased with our experience here
Brandi Sims
This is the best used car dealership in Hot Springs. They are VERY FRIENDLY and genuinely care about their customers. They will not put you in a vehic...
Christina Chambers
Charles was very friendly, considerate and was dedicated in helping my daughter and find a great car. He was not pushy at all and was very honest. Tha...
Em Elliott
Brian was professional, friendly, and kind. He went above and beyond helping me get into a good, dependable car. He even stayed after hours while I go...
Kurtis Zerr
Lloyd's Auto sales made the process of my new purchase just as I wanted " down to business" Charles, my salesman would have to be the most professiona...
Carla Lee
I came into Lloyds and I was immediately greeted I picked out a vehicle Wild Bill told me to drive it and take my time I loved the vehicle did the pap...
Harold Westfall
I bought my 2004 GMC Sierra from Lloyd's almost 2 years ago. I've driven over 50,000 miles since then and have never had a bit of trouble out of it.
...
Shannon Grandon
was send me to there by other company due to my credit issues. met w Jim.. he's awesome and fun.  he put up lot of patience with my crazy self and too...
Paula  Beason
Lloyds is great man he's always helped us out, worked with us,
His staff is excellent,
He has an awesome selection,
They make sure you find the ...
samuel pruitt
I had a wonderful experience buying my 2002 Toyota Tacoma pickup. my salesman wild Bill acted like he realy cared about my needs. he and the rest of t...
Takaoqha May
Well i got my car yesterday an Mr.Charles was a great sale rep he did everything to help me an didnt lie to me about nothing the car i look at we talk...
Courtney LeAnna Wilson
1. Our sales rep.
Jim, thank you so much! WE LOVE THIS VEHICLE! You were patient, let me check out everything on BOTH vehicles i was interested in, a...
Stella M Fries
I bought a 2005 mini van years ago. It's paid off. They gave me a list of vehicles to look at that I could afford. It was over 100 degrees that day I ...
Karrie Griffin
Lloyd's auto sale has been so helpful getting me into a car I can afford and that's not junk! I went to five different shops all too high for crappy v...
Adria Sharp
This was the best vehicle buying experience we've EVER had!  Cliff was so helpful.  He put us in the vehicle we needed to suit our budget and lifestyl...
Previous
Next
Get Approved Now!
Fill out our quick and easy credit application to get approved fast!
Get Approved Now!
Fill out our quick and easy credit application to get approved fast!
Verification
Apply Now!
I agree to the Lloyd's Auto Sales Privacy Policy & I consent to be contacted via telephone, email and texts by Lloyd's Auto Sales.
Award-Winning Service
Check out some of our awards!
Learn More About Us!
CONTACT US
Lloyd's Auto Sales
Location:  1814 Albert Pike Road, Hot Springs, AR 71913
Phone:  (501) 623-1717
Fax:  (501) 623-1796
Link to the Lloyd's Auto Sales Facebook Page
Link to the Lloyd's Auto Sales Youtube Channel
Sales Hours - Lloyd's
Mon:
9:00am - 6:00pm
Tue:
9:00am - 6:00pm
Wed:
9:00am - 6:00pm
Thu:
9:00am - 6:00pm
Fri:
9:00am - 6:00pm
Sat:
9:00am - 5:00pm
Sun:
Closed
Questions?
Contact Us
Lloyds Auto Sales is a Buy-Here-Pay-Here Dealer in Hot Springs, AR.Used BHPH/Buy Here Pay Here Car Dealer Hot Springs, AR
Lloyds Auto Sales is a pre-owned auto dealership that sells used BHPH cars, used BHPH trucks, used BHPH vans, used BHPH SUVs, used BHPH sedans and used BHPH family crossover vehicles in Hot Springs AR. We have a great selection of used cars for sale, as well as used trucks, vans, and SUVs. We offer in-house auto financing and have the power to approve you no matter no credit, or bad credit. We can work with the worst credit. As a buy here pay here/BHPH auto dealership, we specialize in bad credit auto loans and will work to get you approved with a low-down payment, and low monthly payments. Lloyds Auto Sales understands if your credit is less than perfect, life happens. If you have had a foreclosure, bankruptcy, divorce or repossession and your bank has turned you down, then turn to Lloyds Auto Sales in Hot Springs AR. Just because we are in Hot Springs AR, doesn’t mean that we stop there. We Also serve residents in: Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Texarkana AR, DeQueen AR, Nashville AR, Ashdown AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County. Lloyd’s Auto Sales is a Buy Here Pay Here Auto Dealer located in Hot Springs AR. What is Buy Here Pay Here? Good question. What this means is that “Lloyd’s Auto Sales” is the bank, and we can get you approved today, because we are the ones that give you the approval. You don't need to look anywhere else to get approved for a car loan before you step on our lot, we will tell you “Yes”. Buy your car HERE, and make your payment HERE. With buy here pay here/BHPH financing we have everything you will need under one roof. Let our friendly auto finance staff walk you through the process, start to finish. We keep it simple. We will look at what you can afford to pay today and what you can afford to pay per month and get you back behind the wheel. Making life EASY is our specialty. We make it easy to get approved, easy to pick your car, and easy to make payments. Come see us today! Get behind the wheel of your new used car from Lloyds Auto Sales today! Lloyd’s Auto Sales provides Bad Credit Auto Loans to residents located in Upstate Arkansas as well. Our focus and goals are to excel in helping our customers get approval where others cannot. We offer quick and easy credit approval for your next used auto loan, even if you have bad credit or no credit at all. If you are in the Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County area and need financing then give Lloyds Auto Sales a call today. Lloyd’s Auto Sales offers 'tote the note' car financing. If you are coming from Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County, don't let a foreclosure or bankruptcy keep you off the road. Apply online now on @ www.LloydsAutoSales.com for no credit or bad credit auto loans in Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County. Even if you have had a car, truck or van repossessed in the past, we finance your future, not your past. With our second chance finance program, we say YES for your next automobile purchase. Head on down from Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County and we will get you approved today! Lloyds Auto Sales helps to provide used car, truck, SUV and van loan/financing to local Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and Garland County residents. Lloyds Auto Sales helps local area residents get the used car loan approval that they need, regardless of the credit score. Have you ever filed for bankruptcy? been divorced? Had a repossession? NO problem! At Lloyds Auto Sales, we try to help people get approved for used car loans, used truck loans, used van loans, used SUV loans & used sedan loans in Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County. At Lloyds Auto Sales, we understand your situation and we can get you approved for the used car, used truck, used van, used SUV or used sedan of your dreams today! We are the home of the easy car loan! We have easy car financing, low down payments, and easy payment plans. If you need an auto loan in Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County, you have found the right place. Even if you have bad credit, no credit or have things on your credit report that are holding you back from your automotive dreams such as repossessions, bankruptcy, debt, defaults, and delinquencies then come on down to Lloyds Auto Sales today. Come see us and you could be driving away in a new car today with our connections with local area dealerships! At Lloyds Auto Sales we also provide used car loans/financing to Hot Springs AR, Malvern AR, Arkadelphia AR, Benton AR, Bryant AR, Maumelle AR, Little Rock AR, North Little Rock AR, Sherwood AR, Conway AR, Russellville AR, Jacksonville AR, Pine Bluff AR, Camden AR, Hope AR, Cabot AR, and all of Garland County.Lloydsautosales.com Accessibility Statement
Updated: September 2019.
General
Lloydsautosales.com strives to ensure that its services are accessible to people with disabilities. Lloydsautosales.com has invested a significant amount of resources to help ensure that its website is made easier to use and more accessible for people with disabilities, with the strong belief that every person has the right to live with dignity, equality, comfort and independence.
Accessibility on Lloydsautosales.com
Lloydsautosales.com makes available the UserWay Website Accessibility Widget that is powered by a dedicated accessibility server. The software allows Lloydsautosales.com to improve its compliance with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1).
Enabling the Accessibility Menu
The Lloydsautosales.com accessibility menu can be enabled by clicking the accessibility menu icon that appears on the corner of the page. After triggering the accessibility menu, please wait a moment for the accessibility menu to load in its entirety.
Disclaimer
Lloydsautosales.com continues its efforts to constantly improve the accessibility of its site and services in the belief that it is our collective moral obligation to allow seamless, accessible and unhindered use also for those of us with disabilities.
Despite our efforts to make all pages and content on Lloydsautosales.com fully accessible, some content may not have yet been fully adapted to the strictest accessibility standards. This may be a result of not having found or identified the most appropriate technological solution.
Here For You
If you are experiencing difficulty with any content on Lloydsautosales.com or require assistance with any part of our site, please contact us during normal business hours as detailed below and we will be happy to assist.
Contact Us
If you wish to report an accessibility issue, have any questions or need assistance, please contact Lloydsautosales.com Customer Support.
Home
About Us
Testimonials
Write a Review
Feedback and Complaints
FAQ
Inventory
Services
Find a Vehicle
Book Test-Drive
Sell Your Auto
Refer a Friend
Get Approved
Contact Us
Hours / Directions
Payments
Staff Bios
Careers
Second Chance Scholarship
Privacy Policy
Blog
SitemapXML SitemapNexus Links
All Rights Reserved · © 2025 ·
Lloyd's Auto Sales
This page has been visited 2,095,430 times since November 15th, 2017
Lloyd's Auto Sales has been visited 131,057,702 times.