Italian American Police Society of New Jersey - Italian American Police Society
Join the IAPSNJ
Dues Payment
Home
About
About the IAPSNJ
Executive Board
History
In Memoriam
Employment
Donations
Events
Annual Gala Benefit Dinner Dance
IAPSNJ & LE Calendar
Awards Beefsteak Dinner
Bocce Nights in the Park
Columbus Day Activities
Christmas Time Events and Information
Serrone Fundraiser Event
Italian Flag Raising Ceremony
Imperiale Scholarship Fund Raiser
Italian Heritage Month Law Enforcement Awards Program
Meetings
Media
Photos & Videos
Magazine
Programs
College Scholarship Program
Memorial Scholarship History
Safety Equipment Program
Cars for Cops
Supporting Special Olympics New Jersey Athletes
Training & Legislative Affairs
Back to School Supply Drive
Christmas Time Events and Information
Cars for Cops
Sponsors
Merchandise
Clothing
Gold Cards
Challenge Coins
Aprons
Contact
Contact the IAPSNJ
Email List Subscription Page
Info Updater
Donations
Mailing Address
Assorted Web Page Links
×
Welcome to the Italian American Police Society of NJ
Welcome to the Italian American Police Society of New Jersey’s website.  The IAPSNJ, founded in 1985,  is a fraternal,  professional,  and charitable organization comprised of more than four thousand local, county, state and federal law enforcement officers from throughout New Jersey.  Each year our members work hard in communities throughout our State to protect and serve those in need.
Our organization is proud to have supported such important causes such as Special Olympics NJ, Big Brothers and Big Sisters of NJ and New Jersey Veterans Network. Our college scholarship program provides financial assistance to college bound students with more than $300,000 being awarded to date. Our Police Safety Equipment program provides law enforcement equipment to protect themselves and save lives.
I am proud to serve as a law enforcement executive and have led the Italian American Police Society of New Jersey since its inception. I am blessed to have an outstanding Executive Board to lead the finest men and women in law enforcement.
William Schievella President
The History of the IAPSNJ »
important announcements
Support the Police Unity Tour
This time of year, many of our members are preparing for the long ride to the National Law Enforcement Memorial in D.C..  Please show your support. This year we are...
Read More »
JUSTICE FOR SERGEANT JOSEPH AZCONA
Change.org petition “Justice for slain Newark Sgt Joseph Azcona“ Don’t let his murderer be tried as a juvenile.  Follow the Petition Link Below to sign the petition  The...
Read More »
Latest Email Broadcast – IAPSNJ Email List
Are you Not Subscribed.  Please do so at iapsnj.org/mc-email. Click here for the latest email broadcast  This is how we get information to our members such as Meetings, Events, Dues Renew...
Read More »
Meeting Rescheduled
The Italian American Police Society of New Jersey has rescheduled our General Membership Dinner Meeting, which last week’s weather postponed. Join us on 3/18/25 as we enjoy a night of recognition, ...
Read More »
Gala Dinner Dance SOLD OUT
Our 2025 Gala is SOLD OUT If you need to pay for your reserved tickets, ONLY, Use the form below.  If you need to get tickets and Have Not reserved them yet,  Contact Gala Chairman, ...
Read More »
PAPD Newark Airport Golf Outing
The Port Authority Police at Newark Airport are having their 5th Annual Golf Outing to benefit the Anthony Varvaro Believe Foundation. May 21st at the Galloping Hills Golf Course
Read More »
Transit Hiring 1-2025
NJ TRANSIT Police is hiring PTC certified police officers and NON-PTC entry-level police officers! We encourage you to share this fantastic opportunity with your netw...
Read More »
Current Employment Opportunities
Fanwood is Hiring. There are many current opportunities as of today. Go to https://iapsnj.org/about-us/employment/   If you know of any employment opportunities,  Please email them to iap...
Read More »
LEO & IAPSNJ Calendar
We are resurrecting the LEO Calendar.  Are you an officer in your local PBA or FOP,   do you want to add your events to this calendar,  just email us.  Go to iapsnj.org/cal...
Read More »
View All Announcements
Keep Up With IAPSNJ on Instagram
@iapsnj
1.1K
Posts
Follow on Instagram
Magazine
The Newsletter is our Quarterly Magazine that was published by Pat Minutillo for approximately 8 years.  He has retired and we are now looking for someone to continue the work he started.  If you are interested, contact us at president@iapsnj.org
View Quarterly Magazine
In Memoriam
Condolences Cavallo Family
Susan M. Cavallo (nee Fortunato) 78, of the Ironbound Section of Newark, NJ, passed away peacefully at home surrounded by her family on Sunday, September 3, 2023, losing her battle to cancer. Susan was the beloved mother of IAPSNJ Executive...
Read More >>
Passing of Nick Incanella, Lifetime Executive Board Member
It is with great sadness that the Italian American Police Society of NJ remembers its long time Executive Board member and retired Union County Police Officer Nick Incanella who passed away today, 9-1-2022. Nick was a wonderful person and a...
Read More >>
Passing of Vice President & Chief John Lazzara
The Italian American Police Society of New Jersey is sad to announce the passing of Its 1st Vice President, Chief John Lazzara. A wake will be held on Wednesday, October 20th from 3 pm to 8 pm at the...
Read More >>
Passing of Executive Board Member Nat Faronea
The Italian American Police Society of New Jersey is sad to announce the passing of Executive Board member Nat Faronea. Nat Faronea was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1945. After moving to New Jersey in 1960, Nat enlisted in...
Read More >>
View More
Copyright © 2024. Italian American Police Society of New Jersey
Site donated by S-FX.com.						 Sitemap »
modal-check
Gala
Our Gala is Sold Out
If you need to pay for your reserved tickets, go to the website iapsnj.org/gala
Dismiss ad
Dismiss ad
This will close in  4 seconds
GALA IS SOLD OUT  -  Scholarship App available - 2025 Membership Dues are in order
Pay Dues Now
Gala Tickets are available Now - iapsnj.org/gala
Learn more