Australian Music Festivals and Events - Jazz, Blues, Bush, Gospel, Folk, Rock, Country
What to See and Do - Australia Tour Guides
Home
Contact
Australian Music Festivals and Events - Jazz, Blues, Bush, Gospel, Folk, Rock, Country
Jump to Listings
Listed Below are the best Music Festivals and Events - Jazz, Blues, Bush, Gospel, Folk, Rock, Country to visit in Australia.
Australia is home to some of the world's best music festivals. Whether your taste or location you will find there is a local festival in your state or local area. Some of Australia's best musicians have got their start in these festivals. Some of the best known are: The Woodford Folk Festival (originally the Maleny Folk Festival, began in 1993) is an event of international standing. Held over six days and six nights it presents more than 2000 performers and 400 events with street theatre, forums, workshops, dances, concerts and much more. The Port Fairy Folk Festival has been held for more than 30 years. Each year it presents around 20 International acts and over 100 national artists plus Street Invaders and a Children`s Program. It includes present rock, crossroads country, jazz, Celtic roots,
bluegrass, jazz, blues and folk roots, and music of the world. Bluesfest - East Coast Blues and Roots Festival - has been held in Byron Bay for 19 years. Possibly the biggest party in the whole of Australia, the Tamworth Country Music Festival is celebrated for 10 days from mid January each year. It boasts some 120 different venues showing about 4,000 performances and about 590 buskers on the 'Boulevard of Dreams' (Peel Street) and huge crowds of visitors.
Listed below are the best Australian Music Festivals and Events - Jazz, Blues, Bush, Gospel, Folk, Rock, Country  listed by location and type.
Scroll through the list and click the operator`s link to get more information.
NSW>Blue Mountains>Katoomba Blue Mountains Festival of Folk Blues and RootsThe Annual Blue Mountains Music Festival of Folk, Blues and Roots is a three day festival of folk, roots and blues music, featuring selected artists from around the world and across Australia. In a variety of venues in Katoomba, see and hear world class musicians with world class production in an intimate and relaxed atmosphere both performers and audiences rave about.
NSW>Snowy Mountains>Numeralla Numeralla Folk FestivalNumeralla Folk Festival is affectionately referred to as the Folkies Festival. Each year musicians and others gather to celebrate music, song, poetry and dance while they relax in the campground at the junction of the Numeralla and Badja Rivers in the picturesque and peaceful village of Numeralla. The Festival is free. There is no charge for camping or tickets. Accommodation is strictly camping although if you prefer a motel there are plenty available in nearby Cooma.
NSW>Snowy Mountains>Thredbo Thredbo Blues FestivalThe Thredbo Blues Festival a three-day celebration of Blues and Roots music throughout spectacular Thredbo, which offers a unique alpine environment to enjoy the blues, surrounded by the mountain scenery as you stroll to all the 18 venues, which are all within easy walking distance of each other, including outdoor stages, bars, the Thredbo Village Square, cosy restaurants and at the top of the Kosciuszko Express Chairlift.
NSW>New England and NW>Tamworth Tamworth Country Music FestivalPossibly the biggest party in the whole of Australia, the Tamworth Country Music Festival is celebrated for 10 days from mid January each year. If you include the ten day Countdown to the festival you could Texas Twostep for twenty days straight. In January, the population of Tamworth almost doubles in size to 100,000. Judges cruise Peel Street throughout the Festival and finalists are chosen to perform before a large crowd at the Best of the Buskers concert.
VIC>Goldfields>Bendigo Bendigo Folk ClubWelcome to the Bendigo Folk Club. Our club supports acoustic music in our local region. We do this by engaging a variety of different styles of music and always recognising traditional cultures. We foster a listening audience. This acknowledges our undivided support to both established and emerging talent. Our Club Nights occur monthly and provide members and guests with an opportunity to share their music in a friendly and supportive atmosphere.
VIC>Goldfields>Maldon Maldon Folk FestivalMaldon Folk Festival, located in Central Victoria, has been held annually for more than three decades.  Each year we provide a long weekend of quality entertainment at affordable prices, to suit all age groups. Join us in Maldon in October / November each year. Experience the legendary festival atmosphere, showcasing an abundance of music, dance and theatre in the historic township. Enjoy 4 days of folk music and dance, musical theatre and interactive workshops.
VIC>Wine and High Country>Mount Beauty Mount Beauty Music FestivalThe Mount Beauty Music Festival includes a fine line up of artists, comedians and poets.  Not only will you be able to listen to blues, roots, world music and country but this year introduces a classical element to the festival. Set in the picturesque alpine valley at the base of Victoria`s Mount Bogong our friendly festival brings you `mountains of music`, wine, food, markets and fun. Don`t miss it!
VIC>Wine and High Country>Wangaratta Wangaratta Festival of JazzThe Wangaratta Festival of Jazz is an annual festival of jazz and blues. It has become the premier jazz event in Australia and is renowned internationally. Since inception in 1990, the festival has grown to include 90 events and over 350 national and international artists performing each year. The Wangaratta Festival of Jazz also hosts the National Jazz Awards, Youth Jazz Workshops, Masterclasses and events throughout Wangaratta and surrounding wine regions.
VIC>Wine and High Country>Yackandandah Yackandandah Folk FestivalOur festival offers you space to be; time to sit in the warm intimacy of the courthouse having a personal encounter with your favourite performer, gathering with friends in the sun out the back of the top pub, sharing Saturday dinner in the rotunda in the gardens, or being part of the enthusiastic audience in the public hall cheering on our community choir. Experience stunning concert performances by outstanding international and national acts