Harry S. Truman | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica
Click here to search
Search Britannica
Click here to search
SUBSCRIBE
SUBSCRIBE
Login
https://premium.britannica.com/premium-membership/?utm_source=premium&utm_medium=nav-login-box&utm_campaign=evergreen
SUBSCRIBE
Home
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Games & Quizzes
Videos
On This Day
One Good Fact
Dictionary
New Articles
History & Society
Lifestyles & Social Issues
Philosophy & Religion
Politics, Law & Government
World History
Science & Tech
Health & Medicine
Science
Technology
Biographies
Browse Biographies
Animals & Nature
Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
Environment
Fossils & Geologic Time
Mammals
Plants
Geography & Travel
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
Entertainment & Pop Culture
Literature
Sports & Recreation
Visual Arts
Companions
Demystified
Image Galleries
Lists
Podcasts
Spotlight
Summaries
Top Questions
#WTFact
Britannica Kids
Ask the Chatbot
Games & Quizzes
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Videos
Harry S. Truman
Table of Contents
Introduction & Top QuestionsEarly life and careerAt a glance: the Truman presidencySuccession to the presidencyWinning a second termOutbreak of the Korean WarCabinet of President Harry S. Truman
Quotes
References & Edit History
Quick Facts & Related Topics
Images, Videos & Interactives
For Students
Pop Quiz: 17 Things to Know About World War II
Harry S. Truman summary
Quizzes
World War II Quiz
U.S. Presidents and Their Years in Office Quiz
Facts You Should Know: The Cold War Quiz
All-American History Quiz
U.S. Presidents Facts
Related Questions
What was Harry S. Truman’s reaction to communist North Korea’s attempt to seize noncommunist South Korea in 1950?
Why did the Korean War start?
How was the United States involved in the Korean War?
How were China and the Soviet Union involved in the Korean War?
Was the Korean War technically a war?
Read Next
All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained
Korean War Timeline
Have Any U.S. Presidents Decided Not to Run For a Second Term?
9 U.S. Presidents with the Most Vetoes
5 Fascinating Facts about the Births and Deaths of U.S. Presidents
Discover
The Seven Sacraments of the Roman Catholic church
Canada: 10 Claims to Fame
7 of History's Most Notorious Serial Killers
What's the Difference Between a Solstice and an Equinox?
New Seven Wonders of the World
10 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time
5 of the World’s Most Devastating Financial Crises
Contents
Politics, Law & Government
World Leaders
Presidents & Heads of States
Harry S. Truman
U.S. Pres. Harry S. Truman, oil on canvas by Greta Kempton, 1947; in the collection of the White House.
(more)
Harry S. Truman
33rd president of the United States
Ask the Chatbot a Question
More Actions
Print
print
Print
Please select which sections you would like to print:
Table Of Contents
Cite
verifiedCite
While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
Select Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago Manual of Style
Copy Citation
Share
Share
Share to social media
Facebook
X
URL
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Harry-S-Truman
Feedback
External Websites
Feedback
Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).
Feedback Type
Select a type (Required)
Factual Correction
Spelling/Grammar Correction
Link Correction
Additional Information
Other
Your Feedback
Submit Feedback
Thank you for your feedback
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
External Websites
The State Historical Society of Missouri - Historic Missourians - Harry S. Truman
National Park Service - Harry Truman’s Decision to Use the Atomic Bomb
History Learning Site - Biography of Harry Truman
GlobalSecurity.org - Biography of Harry S. Truman
Britannica Websites
Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students.
Harry S. Truman - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)
Harry S. Truman - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)
Ask the Chatbot a Question
Written by
Alfred Steinberg
Writer and historian. Author of Man from Missouri: The Life and Times of Harry S. Truman and others.
Alfred Steinberg
Fact-checked by
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Last Updated:
Mar 21, 2025
•
Article History
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Ask the Chatbot
Quick Facts
Born:
May 8, 1884, Lamar, Missouri, U.S.
(Show more)
Died:
December 26, 1972, Kansas City, Missouri (aged  88)
(Show more)
Title / Office:
presidency of the United States of America (1945-1953), United States
vice president of the United States of America (1945-1945), United States
United States Senate (1935-1945), United States
(Show more)
Political Affiliation:
Democratic Party
(Show more)
Notable Family Members:
spouse Bess Truman
daughter Margaret Truman
(Show more)
Role In:
Berlin blockade
Cold War
Fair Deal
Korean War
Marshall Plan
Point Four Program
Truman Doctrine
World War I
World War II
Pacific War
Potsdam Declaration
(Show more)
See all related content
Show More
Top Questions
When did Harry S. Truman serve as president?Harry S. Truman served as the 33rd president of the United States from April 12, 1945, to January 20, 1953.Under what circumstances did Harry S. Truman become president?Vice President Harry S. Truman was sworn in as president of the United States on April 12, 1945, after the death of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who died suddenly of a cerebral hemorrhage.When did Harry S. Truman approve the development of the hydrogen bomb?Harry S. Truman authorized the development of the hydrogen bomb in 1950 to maintain an arms lead over the Soviet Union. By the end of the decade, the United States and the Soviet Union had embarked on an arms race of potentially world-destroying dimensions.What was Harry S. Truman’s reaction to communist North Korea’s attempt to seize noncommunist South Korea in 1950?Harry S. Truman reportedly responded, “By God, I’m going to let them [North Korea] have it!” He did not ask Congress for a declaration of war and was criticized for this decision. Truman, with UN sanction, sent U.S. forces under General Douglas MacArthur to South Korea to repel the invasion.
News •
Houthis claim new attacks on U.S. aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman
• Mar. 18, 2025, 6:38 AM ET (Newsweek)
...(Show more)
Tensions rise in Middle East after U.S. strikes in Yemen
• Mar. 17, 2025, 6:44 AM ET (NBC)
Yemen's Houthi rebels claim attacks on carrier group after US strikes
• Mar. 16, 2025, 9:27 AM ET (Le Monde)
Carrier Truman conducts flight operations after completing repairs from collision
• Feb. 25, 2025, 5:31 AM ET (Janes)
Update: Truman should continue deployment as scheduled after emergent repairs, carrier commanding officer says
• Feb. 24, 2025, 5:31 AM ET (Janes)
Show less
Harry Truman's presidency: World War II, the atomic bomb, and the Cold WarAn overview of Harry S. Truman.(more)See all videos for this articleHarry S. Truman (born May 8, 1884, Lamar, Missouri, U.S.—died December 26, 1972, Kansas City, Missouri) was the 33rd president of the United States (1945–53), who led his country through the final stages of World War II and through the early years of the Cold War, vigorously opposing Soviet expansionism in Europe and sending U.S. forces to turn back a communist invasion of South Korea.  Early life and career Truman was the eldest of three children of John A. and Martha E. Truman; his father was a mule trader and farmer. After graduating from high school in 1901 in Independence, Missouri, he went to work as a bank clerk in Kansas City. In 1906 he moved to the family farm near Grandview, and he took over the farm management after his father’s death in 1914. When the United States entered World War I in 1917, Truman—nearly 33 years old and with two tours in the National Guard (1905–11) behind him—immediately volunteered. He was sent overseas a year later and served in France as the captain of Battery D, a field artillery unit that saw action at Saint Mihiel and the Meuse-Argonne. The men under his command came to be devoted to him, admiring him for his bravery and evenhanded leadership. Returning to the United States in 1919, Truman married Elizabeth Wallace (Bess Truman), whom he had known since childhood; they had one child, Margaret, in 1924. With army friend Edward Jacobson he opened a haberdashery, but the business failed in the severe recession of the early 1920s. Another army friend introduced him to Thomas Pendergast, Democratic boss of Kansas City. With the backing of the Pendergast machine, Truman launched his political career in 1922, running successfully for county judge. He lost his bid for reelection in 1924, but he was elected presiding judge of the county court in 1926, again with Pendergast’s support. He served two four-year terms, during which he acquired a reputation for honesty (unusual among Pendergast politicians) and for skillful management. In 1934 Truman’s political career seemed at an end because of the two-term tradition attached to his job and the reluctance of the Pendergast machine to advance him to higher office. When several people rejected the machine’s offer to run in the Democratic primary for a seat in the U.S. Senate, however, Pendergast extended the offer to Truman, who quickly accepted. He won the primary with a 40,000-vote plurality, assuring his election in solidly Democratic Missouri. In January 1935 Truman was sworn in as Missouri’s junior senator by Vice Pres. John Nance Garner. He began his Senate career under the cloud of being a puppet of the corrupt Pendergast, but Truman’s friendliness, personal integrity, and attention to the duties of his office soon won over his colleagues. He was responsible for two major pieces of legislation: the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, establishing government regulation of the aviation industry, and the Wheeler-Truman Transportation Act of 1940, providing government oversight of railroad reorganization. Following a tough Democratic primary victory in 1940, he won a second term in the Senate, and it was during this term that he gained national recognition for leading an investigation into fraud and waste in the U.S. military. While taking care not to jeopardize the massive effort being launched to prepare the nation for war, the Truman Committee (officially the Special Committee Investigating National Defense) exposed graft and deficiencies in production. The committee made it a practice to issue draft reports of its findings to corporations, unions, and government agencies under investigation, allowing for the correction of abuses before formal action was initiated.
Britannica Quiz
Pop Quiz: 17 Things to Know About World War II
Respected by his Senate colleagues and admired by the public at large, Truman was selected to run as Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s vice president on the 1944 Democratic ticket, replacing Henry A. Wallace. The Roosevelt-Truman ticket garnered 53 percent of the vote to 46 percent for their Republican rivals, and Truman took the oath of office as vice president on January 20, 1945. His term lasted just 82 days, however, during which time he met with the president only twice. Roosevelt, who apparently did not realize how ill he was, made little effort to inform Truman about the administration’s programs and plans, nor did he prepare Truman for dealing with the heavy responsibilities that were about to devolve upon him.   At a glance: the Truman presidency