Paradise Lake Resort is a wilderness
resort located just 3 1/2 hours from Vancouver, British Columbia. More than
half of the 28 sites in the resort are lakefront; many with their own docks.
We welcome your stay at one of the fully furnished log Chalets. Each Chalet is
privately owned and managed, has electricity and is serviced with a community water and sewer system.
All the amenities of home in a wilderness setting!!!
Paradise Lake Resort is a four season facility with great outdoor
activities year round.
Originally a fishing camp, Paradise is one of the most prolific
trout fishing lakes in the region with many trout in the 8 to 12 inch size
range. These high altitude fish are delicious year round. A great
place to introduce youngsters to the sport of angling!! Paradise Lake has a
motor size limit of 9.9 HP, so the area is quiet and great fun in the summer
for all. The region offers a wide variety of accessible lakes with
trout up to 10 lbs. All the lakes in the area produce fish year round, with
ice fishing a popular winter sport.
For those who enjoy wildlife viewing or
photography, there is an abundance of subjects. Deer and Moose are seen
regularly throughout the year. Marmot, squirrels, coyotes, chipmunks and
even the odd cougar are common to the region. Many water fowl are also seen
with Loons and Peregrine falcon being the most common residents. Be sure to bring a
book on wildflowers to identify the many species you will encounter. Some
species may include Indian Paint Brush, Ladyslippers, Tiger Lilies,
Brown-Eyed Susans, Lupines, Columbine and many varieties of mushrooms.
The Resort is a beautiful wilderness
hideaway situated 7 km off the Coquihalla Connector halfway between Merritt
and Peachland. The Lake is at an elevation of approximately 5000 feet, so
summer nights are nice and cool; great for enjoying an outdoor fire in the
fire pits offered with the cabins. Winter heat is primarily from wood
burning free standing enclosed fireplaces in the cabins.
Spring, summer and fall offer great fishing; hiking; ATV
riding; wildlife viewing etc.
Winter offers cross country skiing; ski-dooing;
snowshoeing etc.
Chalet
Accommodations:
Each chalets is approx 700 sq. ft. plus a loft
area that varies from 1/2 loft to a fully enclosed upstairs. Many Chalets
also have finished basements.
Each layout varies slightly according to each owner's preference.
Sleeping accommodations vary; maximum of 8 people in some of the units. Rates vary according to
number of people and the season; starting at $125/night and going up to $200+.
WiFi - there is limited WiFi and cellular service, please contact individual chalet owners for details.
SORRY, NO PETS.
Directions:
Coming from Merritt, take Highway 97C to the
Elkart Road Exit
(approx. 45 km). Follow the exit as it loops under the highway and follow
the signs to Paradise Lake Lodge (approx. 7 km). Coming from Peachland or
Westbank, take 97C to the Elkart Road Exit (approx. 50 km). Follow the signs
to Paradise Lake Resort.