Mong-Lan: Official Website
behind the image, the imagination  --Mong-Lan
Biography
Writing
Artwork
Music
Reviews
Tango
Artistic Schedule
Workshops / Interviews
Contact
Photo album
Links
Mong-Lan, poet, novelist, essayist, former Stegner Fellow at Stanford University, Fulbright Scholar, has published seven (7) books of poetry & artwork, three (3) chapbooks, has won prizes such as the Juniper Prize and the Pushcart Prize. Poems have been included in numerous  anthologies such as Best American Poetry Anthology and various Norton anthologies. She has finished a novel, with an excerpt  in the North American Review.
Mong-Lan as a musician plays the piano and guitar, sings in six languages, and also composes. Her eleven albums of jazz piano and tangos also showcase her poetry.
As a visual artist, Mong-Lan has had her paintings and photographs exhibited in museums such as the Dallas Museum of Art and galleries in the U.S., and in public exhibitions in Tokyo, Seoul, Bangkok, Bali and Buenos Aires.
Mong-Lan as a dancer has studied ballet, jazz and flamenco, and has specialized as an Argentine tango dancer, performer, and teacher, having over twenty years of tango dance experience, in Buenos Aires, San Francisco, New York City, Houston, Tokyo, Bangkok, Hanoi, and elsewhere.
As an educator, Mong-Lan has taught at the Univ of Maryland in Tokyo, Stanford University, the Univ of Arizona in Tucson, and has been an invited guest teacher and speaker on numerous campuses, festivals, schools, cultural organizations, and at U.S Embassy sponsored lectures, in the United States and internationally.
Mong-Lan left her native Viet Nam on the last day of the evacuation of Sai Gon. Her  solo show, Ocean of Senses: Dream Songs & Tangos: one woman's journey from Sai Gon to Buenos Aires via America, blends original poetry, jazz piano, guitar, dance, story and song.
Arrabal de Tango: Tango por Siempre, 2020
Arrabal de Tango: Tango por Siempre by Mong-Lan and Enrique Santillán
Arrabal de Tango: Tango por Siempre
Valiant Productions, 2020
click above to listen
Tango from their barrios, their neighborhoods, Almagro, Avellaneda,
Buenos Aires: Mong-Lan and Enrique Santillán’s new album of tangos
with guitar and voice. Mong-Lan, Vietnamese-born singer and guitarist,
and Enrique Santillán, virtuoso guitarist, from Avellaneda, Buenos Aires,
interpret the classic tangos with passion, ingenuity, and brilliance.
Dusk Aflame: poems & art
January 2018
ISBN-13: 9780982822746
Valiant Press, full-length collection
Poetry and artwork
Tone of Water in a Half-Filled Glass
May 2018, Foothills Publishing, chapbook
ISBN: 978-0-921053-18-7
What's New:
Online Writing Workshops via Zoom, Nov 21 and 22, more info here. These events are supported in part by Poets & Writers, thanks to a grant from the Hearst Foundations.
Mong-Lan presents LIVE, Friday, Oct 30, 7 pm, CDT, "Hunger & Resilience: Reading / Talk / Performance" of her poetry & more. RSVP: Facebook Live; Watch it here on Youtube.
Mong-Lan presents LIVE "Arrabal de Tango:  Tango por Siempre" -- Concert, Poetry Recital, Art Exhibition, July 2020, Watch it here: LAN Tango on Facebook, or here on Youtube.
New album, "Arrabal de Tango: Tango por Siempre," Mong-Lan & Enrique Santillan, Valiant Productions, May 2020.
At the AWP (Associated Writing Programs), in San Antonio, March 3, 2020. I organized, moderated and participated in the panel, "The Dancer from the Dance," which involved the #MeToo movement in the literary field. It was a success!
My Unofficial #AWP20 T-shirts, which was a finalist in this year's competition. I've printed them, limited edition. You can purchase them here.
Mong-Lan's 7th book of poems, Dusk Aflame: poems & art, Jan. 2018, Valiant Press.
New chapbook, Tone of Water in a Half-Filled Glass, May 2018, Foothills Publishing.
Tango album release, Perfumas de Amor, de Argentina y Viet Nam, Tango por Siempre, 2018.
"The Winding Roads of Poetry & Art" -- blog on Poets & Writer's  website on Mong-Lan's  upstate New York poetic tour, May 2018.
Interview: "Award Winning Poet Mong-Lan's artistic journey from Saigon to Buenos Aires to APAP"--January 2017.
"On the Tango and Buenos Aires" -- for the Best American Poetry website
Mong Lan
Mong - Lan Writer
Mong-Lan
". . . A true original, unafraid of sentiment and at the height of her  artistic prowess, Mong-Lan’s new book proves she remains one of our  leading poets.”—Ravi Shankar, editor of Drunken Boat.
Buy Mong-Lan's Books / Chapbooks / T-shirts
Dusk Aflame: poems & art, autographed copy, 2018 $22.95 USD
One Thousand Minds Brimming: poems & art -- autographed copy $26.95 USD
Force of the Heart: Tango, Art -- autographed copy $21.95 USD
Tango, Tangueando: Poemas & Dibujos (edición bilingüe) autograph $23.96 USD
Tango, Tangoing: Poems & Art -- English -- autographed copy $22.95 USD
Why is the Edge Always Windy? -- autographed copy $16.95 USD
Song of the Cicadas -- autographed copy $16.95 USD
Love Poem to Ginger & Other Poems -- chapbook -- autographed $11.95 USD
Love Poem to Tofu & Other Poems -- chapbook -- autographed $11.95 USD
#AWP20 San Antonio T-shirts $25.00 USD
#AWP20 San Antonio T-shirts
Small
Medium
Large
For orders  shipping overseas, please write Mong-Lan a message. Contact
Background drawing of the Mekong river, in Vinh Long, Vietnam, by Mong-Lan, 1996.
Website created on May 19, 2001.  Last modified October 2020.
Copyright © 2001-2020 by Mong-Lan. All rights reserved. Website created by Mong-Lan. Please respect the fact that all artwork, writing, poetry, and music (except where indicated), on this website are copyrighted by Mong-Lan. It may not be stored, displayed, published, reproduced, without her written permission.