Scott Burns Musician - All About Jazz
All About Jazz Essentials
Advertise
Album Reviews
Articles
Born Today
Contest Giveaways
Musicians
News
Radio & Podcasts
Similar Artists
Song of the Day
Videos
+ More...
EXPLORE
SEARCH
GO
Advanced Search
Near You
Sign In
Up
Donate
Home »
Jazz Musicians »
Scott Burns
Claim page
Scott Burns
Biography
Articles
Teacher
Possessing a warm, expressive sound, an energetic rhythmic feel, and formidable melodic and harmonic insight, saxophonist Scott Burns has been a fixture on the Chicago jazz scene since moving to the city in 1998.  A native of Dayton, Ohio, Scott began his education and professional career in jazz in nearby Cincinnati.  After graduating at the top of his class from the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, Scott became an in-demand player in the greater Cincinnati/Dayton area.  Performance credits include regular appearances as both leader and sideman at the landmark Blue Wisp Jazz Club, performances with powerhouse drummer John von Ohlen & the Blue Wisp Big Band, the PsychoAcoustic Orchestra, and the Cincinnati Pops Orchestra.  He also performed in concert alongside legendary jazz trumpeter Clark Terry as part of a Cincinnati jazz series.In 1998, Scott moved to Chicago to attend DePaul University’s Masters of Music program.  While playing with DePaul’s award-winning jazz ensemble, Scott was a prominently featured soloist alongside legendary jazz performers Joe Lovano, Tom Harrell, Kenny Werner, Louis Bellson and Nicholas Payton, and received an outstanding soloist award from Down Beat magazine in 1999.  As an established member of the local jazz scene, Scott frequently shares the stage with veteran Chicago jazz musicians, including Jodie Christian, Ron Perrillo, Jeff Parker, George Fludas, Dana Hall, Kelly Sill, Paulinho Garcia, Bobby Broom, and others.  He has performed with the Chicago Jazz Ensemble under the direction of the late William Russo, and the Chicago Jazz Orchestra with guest saxophonists Von Freeman and Charles McPherson, pianist John Campbell, and vocalists Judy Roberts and Kurt Elling.  Scott has toured nationally, playing select dates with legendary singer Harry Connick Jr., as well as with the jazz/blues/soul band the Mighty Blue Kings, headlining major festivals & venues including JVC Jazz Fest, Newport Jazz Fest, the House of Blues, Chicago Blues Festival, and others.  Recently, he has appeared with international jazz artists David Hazeltine and Ira Sullivan.Scott’s debut CD as a leader, Passages, was released on Origin Records and features his original compositions.  The album has received critical acclaim both locally and nationally, and has been broadcasted across the nation.  Scott Burns can currently be seen and heard performing at festivals and venues throughout the Midwest region.
Tags
Scott Burns
saxophone, tenor
like
30
Album Review
Scott Burns / John Wojciechowski / Geof Bradfield: Tenor Time
by Jack Bowers
December 31, 2022
Tenor Time unveils the talents of a trio of Chicago-area tenor saxophonists, each of whom--presumably—solos on each of the album's eight numbers. The qualifier is necessary because the solo order is not given and, skillful as they are, the tenors sound much like triplets at the same workbench. That is to say that in terms of tone, technique and improvisation, they more closely resemble Tweedledee and Tweedledum than, say, Stan Getz, Zoot Sims and Hank Mobley.  If ...
Continue Reading
like
359
Live Review
Scott Burns Quartet at Andy's Jazz Club, Chicago, June 25
by Kim Vinson
July 26, 2008
Scott Burns QuartetAndy'sChicago, IllinoisJune 25, 2008  It was a muggy summer night, but the streets were bustling with activity. I made my way into Andy's Jazz Club located in downtown Chicago at 11 E. Hubbard St., just west of Michigan Ave. The spacious venue was alive with a contagious energy. The waitress asked where I wanted to sit. I scanned the room, noticing seats near the stage area, and told her right up front. Her ...
Continue Reading
Read more articles
Primary InstrumentSaxophone, tenorWilling to teachIntermediate to advancedCredentials/BackgroundScott Burns is/ has been an educator at the following Universities and schools:
* Northwestern University High School Music Institute
-full time Jazz Faculty
* Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz
-private instruction
* University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music
-guest clinician
* Bowling Green State University
-guest soloist/clinician
* University of Illinois
-guest clinician
* Columbia College
-jazz jury consultant
* Near North Montessori School
-private instruction
* Cincinnati School for the Creative and Performing Arts
-private instruction
Scott is available for private instruction and clinics.
Topics include:
* Saxophone sound production and technique
* Jazz Theory
* Jazz Improvisation
* Transcription techniques
* Ensemble coaching
* and more!
Please contact Scott via email: [email protected]
or by phone at (773) 960-7297
Music
Recent Releases
Free Song(s)
Recordings: As Leader | As Sideperson
Tenor Time
Afar Music
2022
buy
Passages
Origin Records
2006
buy
Switchback
From: Passages
By Scott Burns
Last Updated:  March 5, 2023
Scott Burns
Instrument: Saxophone, tenor
Followers
Showcase
Buy Now
Situation by Alex Coke & Carl Michel Sextet
Featured Video
Audrey Powne Live at The JazzLab | Electrifying Jazz, R&B & Groove Performance
with Audrey Powne
Featured
Blue World
By Dale Fielder buy
Song of the Day
It's A Blue World
From Blue World
by Dale Fielder
buy
Get more of a good thing!
Our weekly newsletter highlights our top stories, our special offers, and upcoming jazz events near you.
SIGN ME UP!
Connect
Welcome
Our
Staff
Join
Us
More Access
Get Apps
Newsletter
Content Plug-Ins
RSS Feeds
For Musicians
Get Reviewed
Primer
Toolkit
Dashboard
Advertise
Advertising
Tips
Rates and Options
Place Order
2025 All About Jazz. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Install All About Jazz
iOS Instructions:
To install this app, follow these steps:
Tap the share button (the square icon with the up arrow) in the tab bar below.
Scroll down and tap Add to Home Screen.
Close
All About Jazz would like to send you
notifications
Notifications include timely alerts to content of interest, such as articles, reviews, new features, and
more. These can be configured in Settings.
Accept
Close
×
Join Our Community or Welcome Back!
Member? Sign in
Join
Email address
Password
Forgot it? Reset it.Click the eye icon to show your password.
Sign in
Membership has its privileges. Learn more.
First Name and Last Name
First Name Only
Email Address
It will remain private
Password
Enter 6+ characters and enter it twice
Free Weekly Newsletter
Timely jazz news & events guide
Verification Check
Submit
Email address
Reset Password Now
×
One moment, you will be redirected shortly.
×
Welcome to All About Jazz!
We sent a confirmation message to . Look for it, then click the link to activate your account. If you don’t see the email in your inbox, check your spam, bulk or promotions folder.
Thanks for joining the All About Jazz community!
×
Explore All About Jazz & Jazz Near You
Home
Jazz Albums
Album Reviews
Articles
Jazz Musicians
Jazz News
Contest Giveaways
Jazz Pictures
Polls
Radio & Podcasts
Song of the Day
Video of the Day
Home
About
Concerts
Livestreams
Venue / Clubs
Directory
Venue Finder
Musician Finder
Teacher Finder
Events By City
Weekly Newsletter
Welcome!
Getting Started
Advertise
Search
Staff
Help Wanted
FAQ
Contact Us
Our weekly newsletter highlights our top stories and includes a local jazz events calendar.
SIGN ME UP!
×
×
Notification
×
Help improve the Scott Burns page
All About Jazz musician pages are maintained by musicians, publicists and trusted members like you.
Interested? Tell us why you would like to improve the Scott Burns musician page.
Submit