Top Removal & Storage Companies in West Midlands
Home
West Midlands
Get Quotes
Contact Us
Sign In
Removal StorageRemoval Storage
CompanyCompany
Search
Add Your Business
Top Removal and Storage Companies in West Midlands
A comprehensive list of West Midlands based removal & storage firms offering commercial and domestic services. Read unbiased customer reviews and recommendations of local companies.
Request Free Quotes
Go
recommended
Woollcott Removals Ltd
(34)
Wolverhampton, WV10
Woollcotts provide a first class domestic and commercial removal service based out of our head office in Wolverhampton. With years of experience in the field we know how to ensure your move goes smoothly. Our team leaders and crews are trained to the highest standards in the industry assuring you of a friendly professional removal.
Marilyn Mole — Fantastic experience. Woolcotts handled our removal and storage for a year before delivering everything to our new address
Website 01902 791639
Midlands Moving Solutions
Wolverhampton, WV3
We have a selection of removal vehicles large and small to ensure we can provide every job with the right vehicle and trained staff to ensure your house removal within Wolverhampton,Cannock, Bridgnorth, Telford, Stafford and Dudley run smoothly. We have lists of satisfied customers who have either had a house removal or office removal within Wolverhampton,Cannock, Bridgnorth, Telford, Stafford and
01902 828765
W R Woolgar Removals
Birmingham, B19
With being established since 1929 we have a wealth of experience money just can't buy so you can rest assured you've found the right company for your Removals services. We currently have contracts with Birmingham City Council, NHS and several Housing Associations. What we can offer: Domestic Removals, Office Relocation, Delivery services, Storage Solutions, Packing services, Crate hire.
0121 554 4963
Deano's Removals
(2)
Birmingham
Thanks to a large fleet of vans we are able to provide full house and office removals. We usually combine our biggest Midlands vans which enable us to have the loading capability to carry out most removals within a day. Most of the time we pay a visit to our customers premises to carry out an assessment of the items to be moved. We offer a great service with trained personnel to make your move as stress
Jamie C. — Moved my items into storage for me and packed the unit really well so I can go in anytime to get my stuff out. Can't fault
07943 416124
Removals Birmingham
Birmingham, B75
Removals Birmingham are a home removals company based in Birmingham, West Midlands. We provide home removal services covering the West Midlands and also the whole of the UK, Europe and all around the world. In addition to offering removals services, we also provide packing materials, a packing service and storage facilities.
0121 285 3148
Red Cube Storage
(9)
Birmingham, B24
Store your goods in Birmingham's most flexible and accessible storage facility with 24/7 secure access. You will find all our units to be dry and clean with spacious corridor access giving you ample amounts of manoeuvrability space. Call our friendly storage experts today to gain all the information you need to make your move hassle free.
Hayley Reeves — Used here to store some furniture and personal belongings for over a year while I sorted buying and moving, have no complaints
Website 0121 328 4299
Cheap Removals Birmingham
(2)
Birmingham, B5
We offer house removals, office relocations and removals, student removals and self storage. We cater for any size removal from a studio flat to a 7 bed house. We also have a man with a van service for smaller deliveries. We can help with a store collection or purchase, household rubbish disposal, flat pack furniture assembly and much more. Let the professionals take the stress out of moving.
Colin Tamplin — Just to say a big thanks for your great service last Friday. We couldn't have been more happy with your punctuality, speed
07790 016151
Britannia Bradshaw International Removals & Storage
(27)
Birmingham, B62
Britannia Bradshaw International Removals and Storage in Birmingham and the West Midlands. Local, national, international & European removals. Competitive prices, friendly service. Member of the BAR. ISO certified. 98% customer approval rating.
Tom Coulthard — We had a large move that took three days - and Alastair, George, Dave and Noel from Bradshaws were excellent. Never flustered
Website 0121 504 0966
Super Storage
(17)
Stoke-on-Trent, ST6
Super Storage offers simple storage units for Business and Personal use. Free Move in / Move Out Van Free Insurance We Won't be beaten on Price If you need a quality and convenient storage space at competitive prices then Super-Storage is the storage company to help you with your storage needs.
Stephen Rochefort — Good facilities, great staff and very competitive rates. Super service from all the people on site. We had a problem with
Website 01782 214252
M&G Transport Ltd
(21)
Birmingham, B27
M&G Transport was founded in 1983 to offer both domestic and company relocations throughout the United Kingdom and Europe. Indeed past company customers have included Friends Provident, the NHS, Chemico, CountryWide, and many many more. Private clients have included many famous Captains of Industry, Politicians, through to many Premiership footballers. On a local basis every day we serve customers
Rebecca Taylor — After paying over 4000 for a move items were broken and lost. After many calls we received an email saying they were not
Website 0121 705 2323
West Midlands
Birmingham
Solihull
Wolverhampton
Telford
Stoke-on-Trent
Oldbury
Redditch
Shrewsbury
Stafford
Nuneaton
Get free estimates from local recommended companies
Send your requirements
Receive free estimates
Select the best pro
Get quotes
Get quotes for:
Appliance Installation & Removal
Asbestos Removal
Asbestos Removal
House Removals
Man & Van Services
Odour Removal
Off-Site Storage Services
Office Moving
Relocation Consultants
Removal Companies
Removal StorageRemoval Storage
CompanyCompany
Only recommended businesses
About us
We're hiring
Contact us
My account
Add your business
Get free quotes
Privacy policy
Return policy
Cookies policy
About and contact
Contact us
About us
We're hiring
For businesses and consumers
My account
Add your business
Get free quotes
Terms of use and privacy
Privacy policy
Return policy
Cookies policy