WWF - 1987 Results
Skip to main content
WWF – 1987 Results
WWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – January 1, 1987 (4,600) Jim Neidhart defeated Lanny Poffo Raymond Rougeau fought Greg Valentine to a draw King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim Mike Rotundo defeated Sika Bob Orton Jr. defeated Cpl. Kirchner Jacques Rougeau defeated Brutus Beefcake via disqualification Blackjack Mulligan defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Blackjack Mulligan won a $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal; participants included Jerry Brisco, King Kong Bundy, Jimmy Jack Funk, Hillbilly Jim, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, Dick Slater, Scott McGhee, Mike Rotundo, Sika, Cpl. Kirchner, Bob Orton Jr., Mr. Fuji, Lanny Poffo, Jim Neidhart, & Bobby HeenanWWF @ Long Beach, CA – Arena – January 1, 1987 (2,500) Kamala pinned Nick Kiniski Hercules defeated Adrian Adonis via disqualification Jim Brunzell pinned Steve Lombardi Tito Santana & Pedro Morales defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Billy Jack Haynes defeated Butch Reed Bret Hart pinned Koko B. Ware B. Brian Blair pinned Iron Mike Sharpe WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Jake Roberts in a steel cage matchWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – January 2, 1987 (1,500; the Miami Herald listed it as 2,500) Hillbilly Jim defeated Sika Jim Neidhart defeated Scott McGhee Brutus Beefcake defeated Cpl. Kirchner King Kong Bundy defeated Lanny Poffo Jacques Rougeau defeated Danny Spivey Blackjack Mulligan defeated Greg Valentine Mike Rotundo fought Bob Orton Jr. to a draw Blackjack Mulligan won a bunkhouse battle royal; participants included Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, Hillbilly Jim, Sika, Jim Neidhart, Scott McGhee, Brutus Beefcake, Cpl. Kirchner, King Kong Bundy, Lanny Poffo, Jacques Rougeau, Mike Roundo, Danny Spivey, & Bob Orton Jr.WWF @ Santa Barbara, CA – UCSB Events Center – January 2, 1987 (983) Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Billy Anderson Moondog Spot pinned Tiger Chung Lee Koko B. Ware defeated Bret Hart via disqualification Pedro Morales defeated Hercules via count-out Tito Santana pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – January 2, 1987 (19,009) The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones The Karate Kid & Little Coco defeated Little Tokyo & LordLittlebrook B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Butch Reed defeated Nick Kiniski Jerry Allen defeated Steve Lombardi The Junkyard Dog defeated Adrian Adonis via disqualification Jake Roberts fought Billy Jack Haynes to a draw WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaStampede @ Calgary, Alberta – January 2, 1987 WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith, Owen Hart, & Ben Bassarab defeated Mukham & Gama Singh, & Viet Cong in a steel cage matchWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – January 3, 1987 (13,067)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87: Dan Spivey pinned Jimmy Jack Funk at 7:05 with a reverse roll upPrime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87: Don Muraco pinned Lanny Poffo at 6:47 with a powerslam after kicking out of Poffo’s moonsaultPrime Time Wrestling – 1/14/87: Greg Valentine pinned Dick Slater at 13:05 after sending Slater into the corner; Slater had his feet on the ropes during the cover but the referee didn’t see itPrime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87: Tama pinned Scott McGhee with a flying bodypressPrime Time Wrestling – 2/13/87: WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated Bruno Sammartino via count-out at 6:01 after hitting the challenger with a chair on the floor; during the bout, Savage sent Elizabeth backstage; after the contest, Sammartino attacked Savage and trapped him in the bearhug until several referees and wrestlers were able to pull him off the champion (Macho Madness: The Ultimate Randy Savage Collection)Prime Time Wrestling – 1/14/87: Sika pinned Cpl. Kirchner at 7:47 with a diving headbuttPrime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87: Mike Rotundo pinned Pete Doherty with an airplane spin; after the bout, Rotundo was attached by Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake, until Dan Spivey made the savePrime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87: Blackjack Mulligan pinned Brutus Beefcake at 2:17 with a flying back elbow; early in the bout, Greg Valentine was sent backstage after he and Beefcake both attacked Mulligan in the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87: Hillbilly Jim defeated Jim Neidhart via disqualification at 6:56 when Neidhart twice shoved down the referee; after the bout, Neidhart continued to attack his opponent until Hillbilly sent him out of the ring Blackjack Mulligan won a bunkhouse battle royal by last eliminating King Kong Bundy; other participants included Mike Rotundo, Don Muraco, Lanny Poffo, Dick Slater, Sika, Hillbilly Jim, Dan Spivey, Jim Neidhart, Mr. Fuji, Brutus Beefcake, Greg Valentine, the Islanders, Cpl. Kirchner, Pete Doherty, Scotty McGee, Jimmy Jack Funk, and Bob Orton Jr.; order of elimination: Neidhart by Rotundo, Fuji by Kirchner, Spivey by Muraco, McGhee by Valentine, Beefcake by Rotundo, Jimmy Jack Funk by Mulligan, Orton by unknown via atomic drop, Slater by Bundy, Hillbilly Jim by Bundy, Sika by Mulligan via punch, Valentine by Rotundo via punch, Rotundo by Muraco, Haku by Bundy, Tama by Bundy, Muraco by Kirchner, Kirchner by Doherty, Doherty by Bundy after double crossing him and knocking him off the turnbuckle, Bundy by Mulligan via a blow with his boot after Bundy was distracted after Doherty came back into the ring and hit Bundy with a chair (Even More Unusual Matches)WWF @ Riverside, CA – Convention Center – January 3, 1987 (2,145)Debut in Riverside; the card was originally scheduled as Tito Santana vs. King Harley Race, Bret Hart vs. Koko B. Ware, & Pedro Morales vs. Hercules Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Billy Anderson Moondog Spot fought Tiger Chung Lee to a draw Pedro Morales defeated Bret Hart via disqualification Tito Santana defeated Hercules King Harley Race defeated Koko B. WareWWF @ Oakland, CA – Coliseum – January 3, 1987 (15,534; the largest pro wrestling crowd in Northern California in 12 years) The Karate Kid & Little Coco defeated Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Butch Reed defeated Nick Kiniski Jerry Allen defeated Steve Lombardi The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff The Junkyard Dog defeated Adrian Adonis via disqualification Billy Jack Haynes defeated Jake Roberts via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – January 4, 1987 Pete Doherty won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Hillbilly Jim, Dick Slater, Mike Rotundo, Dan Spivey, Lanny Poffo, Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., Brutus Beefcake, Sika, Demolition, the Islanders, Iron Mike Sharpe, Greg Valentine, & Jim Neidhart Bob Orton Jr. vs. ? Brutus Beefcake vs. Dick Slater Pete Doherty vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Sika defeated Lanny Poffo Demolition defeated the Islanders Bruno Sammartino defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage via count-outWWF @ Queens, NY – Queensborough Community College – January 4, 1987 (2,500) Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Barry O & Tiger Chung Lee (sub. for Iron Mike Sharpe) Hercules defeated Pedro Morales Jose Luis Rivera fought Tiger Chung Lee to a draw The Karate Kid & Little Coco defeated Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook The Junkyard Dog defeated Jake Roberts via count-outWWF @ Syracuse, NY – War Memorial – January 4, 1987 Included a bunkhouse battle royal involving Blackjack MulliganWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – January 5, 1987 (15,826; announced at 17,980)WWF Superstars taping:Prime Time Wrestling – 1/14/87: Billy Jack Haynes defeated King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) via disqualification at 9:40 when Heenan interfered as Haynes had the full nelson applied; after the bout, Haynes applied the hold to Heenan until Race made the savePrime Time Wrestling – 1/14/87: Sivi Afi pinned Frenchy Martin at 6:50 with a sunset flip over the top rope1/17/87 – featured a Piper’s Pit with WWF President Jack Tunney, WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, and Andre the Giant in which Hogan was presented with a trophy for being world champion for 3 years: Ricky Steamboat pinned Barry O with the flying bodypress at 2:37 (Steamboat’s return bout) Kamala (w/ Kimchee) pinned Don Driggers with a splash off the top at the 33-second mark; Driggers was taken out on a stretcher after the match Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Salvatore Bellomo & Mario Mancini when Ax pinned Mancini after the Decapitation at 2:22 (Demolition’s debut; Randy Colley aka Moondog Rex played the role of Smash until being replaced by Barry Darsow) Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jim Parks via submission with the full nelson at 1:27; after the bout, Heenan challenged Billy Jack Haynes to break out of the hold but, after coming to the ring, Haynes was attacked by Hercules and had the hold applied on him after pushing Heenan B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Terry Gibbs & Iron Mike Sharpe when Blair pinned Gibbs after the dropkick from Brunzell at 5:32; referee Danny Davis showed favoritism to Sharpe & Gibbs and refused to count at one point when he thought the Bees illegally switched with their masks on, when they didn’t1/24/87 – included a Piper’s Pit with WWF President Jack Tunney, WWF World Champion Hogan and Andre in which Andre was presented with a trophy for being the only undefeated man in WWF history; after Hogan came to the set during the segment, Andre walked off: Paul Orndorff (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Paul Roma with the piledriver at 2:29 Koko B. Ware pinned Steve Lombardi with a missle dropkick at 3:32; prior to the bout, Lombardi threw an injured Roma out of the ring after his bout with Orndorff Rick Martel & Tom Zenk fought Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) to a double disqualification at 3:57 when all four men began brawling in the ring WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Tom Sharpe with the flying elbowsmash at the 45-second mark; Savage wrestled the bout with his sunglasses on while Sharpe was not able to remove his shirt before the match began Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Scott McGhee & Tony Garea when Bret pinned McGhee after the Hart Attack at 2:43 Danny Spivey, Mike Rotundo, & Blackjack Mulligan defeated Ron Bass, Jimmy Jack Funk, & the Gladiator when Mulligan pinned the Gladiator with a flying back elbow at 3:331/31/87 – included a Piper’s Pit segment in which Jesse Ventura said he would have Andre the Giant on the set the following week if Roddy Piper could produce Hulk Hogan: Tito Santana & Pedro Morales defeated the Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) via disqualification when Slick interfered and hit Santana with his cane at 3:12; after the match, Santana chased Slick into the ring and bodyslammed him; Butch Reed then came to ringside and carried Slick backstage King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Greg Vance with the cradle suplex at 1:23 Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Al Navarro & Tiger Chung Lee when Raymond pinned Navarro after a double team move from the top at 3:01; during the bout, Dino Bravo came to ringside and walked around the ring before leaving to join the French commentary team Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Jack Kruger via submission with the sleeper at 1:17 Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) defeated Haku via disqualification at 3:03 when Tama tripped up Valentine from the outside, even though Brutus Beefcake had done the same thing earlier to Haku which went unnoticed by referee Danny Davis; Beefcake & Tama joined their partners at ringside midway through the bout Jake Roberts pinned Jerry Allen with the DDT; the bout began during the commercial breakInternational Wrestling Challenge: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) & the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at around the 11-minute mark after Savage threw the referee out of the ring after bringing the timekeeper’s bell into the ring; Steamboat then grabbed the bell away, forcing Savage & Elizabeth backstage; moments later, Hogan brought Hart into the ring, with Hogan & Steamboat then sending Honky & Hart to the floor (Randy Savage Unreleased: The Unseen Matches of the Macho Man)WWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – January 6, 1987 (9,500; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping: WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant) via disqualification at around the 6-minute markPrime Time Wrestling – 1/14/87 – included Blackjack Mulligan as a guest of the Snake PitPrime Time Wrestling – 1/19/87 – included Salvatore Bellomo as a guest of the Snake Pit, where Bellomo said he was the best wrestler from Italy, he would carry his flag higher than Bruno Sammartino, and that the fans in America love him more than in ItalyAll American Wrestling – 2/1/87 – included Sika & the Wizard as guests of the Snake Pit, in which Sika wrapped Damien around himself and began licking the snakeInternational Wrestling Challenge: WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith, the Junkyard Dog, & Tito Santana (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion the Dynamite Kid) defeated the Honkytonk Man, Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) at around the 13 minute mark when Smith pinned Bret after all three heels were rammed together (The Hart Foundation)WWF Superstars (Italian version): WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) at around the 8-minute mark with the legdrop1/18/87 – included a pre-emption of the Snake Pit, with the same Piper’s Pit from the 1/17 Superstars airing instead: Dan Spivey, Mike Rotundo, & Blackjack Mulligan defeated Ray Miller, Joe Mirto, & Steve Lombardi when Mulligan pinned Miller after a running elbow at 3:41 Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Mario Mancini with a gorilla press slam & elbow drop at the 57-second mark; prior to the match, Andre the Giant was introduced to the crowd and came into the ring to shake Mancini and the ring announcer’s hand but Slick & Reed refused to shake his hand Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Terry Gibbs & the Gladiator when Martel pined the Gladiator with a slingshot splash at 3:26 The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Tom Sharpe with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll at the 47-second mark; after the bout, Honky hit the Shake, Rattle, & Roll again on Sharpe, and while Sharpe was been helped to the back Honky did the move again, this time on the floor Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Tito Santana, Pedro Morales, & Hillbilly Jim via count-out at 4:35 when the faces walked out of the match after referee Danny Davis had twice stopped making a 3-count when it seemed the Hillbilly, Santana, & Morales were going to win George Steele defeated Tony Nardo via submission with the flying hammerlock at 1:171/25/87 – included a pre-emption of the Snake Pit, with the same Piper’s Pit from the 1/24 Superstars airing instead: The Junkyard Dog pinned Al Navarro with the powerslam at 2:01 Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Jerry Allen & Sivi Afi when Ax pinned Allen following the Decapitation at 2:47 Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) pinned Nick Foley with a splash at the 27-second mark; after the bout, Foley was taken from ringside after sustaining a top rope splash from Kamala B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Barry O & David Vance when Blair pinned Vance with the Bee Sting at 3:23 Jacques Rougeau (w/ Raymond Rougeau) fought Don Muraco (w/ Bob Orton Jr. & Mr. Fuji) to a double count-out at 3:07 when the Rougeaus, Orton, & Muraco began fighting on the floor; after the bout, Raymond slammed Fuji on the floor Ricky Steamboat pinned Tiger Chung Lee with the flying bodypress at 3:162/1/87 – included a pre-emption of the Snake Pit, with the same Piper’s Pit from the 1/31 Superstars airing instead; included a closing interview where Gorilla Monsoon interviewed Andre the Giant, with Andre saying he would be there the following week for the showdown with Hulk Hogan: King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Koko B. Ware after Heenan pushed Koko off the top; after the bout, the Junkyard Dog made the save and hiptossed referee Danny Davis Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Don Driggers via submission with the full nelson at the 48-second mark; after the bout, Hercules and Billy Jack Haynes almost had a confrontation as Haynes made his way to the ring for his match Billy Jack Haynes defeated Jimmy Jack Funk via submission with the full nelson; during the bout, Hercules and Bobby Heenan watched the match from ringside; after the bout, a staredown took place involving Haynes and Hercules Adrian Adonis, Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Paul Roma, Tony Garea, & Jim Parks at 2:03 when Parks submitted to Adonis’ sleeper Jake Roberts pinned Gary Starr with the DDT at the 28-second mark Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik (w/ Slick) defeated the Islanders when Sheik pinned Tama at 2:14 after Slick interfered and hit Tama with his cane as the referee tried to get Haku and Volkoff out of the ringWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – January 7, 1987 (4,500) Hillbilly Jim vs. ? Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Dick Slater pinned Bob Orton Jr. Jacques Rougeau fought Jim Brunzell to a double count-out Roddy Piper pinned Adrian Adonis Dick Slater won a 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Blackjack Mulligan, Hillbilly Jim, the Junkyard Dog, Iron Mike Sharpe, Jimmy Jack Funk, Bob Orton Jr., King Kong Bundy, Kamala, Mr. Fuji, Cpl. Kirchner, Ron Bass, Lanny Poffo, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, B. Brian Blair, & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Salisbury, MD – Wicomico Youth & Civic Center – January 7, 1987 Sivi Afi (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) & WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart after a miscommunication with referee Danny Davis caused one of the challengers to be pinned The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones The Islanders fought Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey to a double disqualification Dino Bravo pinned Pedro Morales King Harley Race pinned Koko B. Ware Butch Reed fought Billy Jack Haynes to a draw WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualificationWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – January 7, 1987Rescheduled from 12/12 Outback Jack vs. Les Thornton Dino Bravo vs. Tony Garea Scott McGhee vs. Rene Goulet Tito Santana vs. Hercules Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Jake Roberts vs. George Steele (steel cage match)WWF @ Hartford, CT – Civic Center – January 1987 Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant who gave his title shot to Steamboat) vs. WWF IC Champion Randy SavageWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – January 8, 1987 Roddy Piper vs. Adrian AdonisWWF @ Pottstown, PA – Owen J. Roberts High School – January 8, 1987 (1,687)Tom Magee vs. Barry O Scott McGhee vs. the Red Demon Outback Jack vs. Terry Gibbs Sika vs. Moondog Spot Tito Santana vs. Hercules Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake George Steele vs. Jake Roberts (steel cage match)WWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – January 8, 1987 The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones Mike Rotundo & Dan Spivey fought the Islanders to a double disqualification Dino Bravo defeated Pedro Morales King Harley Race defeated Koko B. Ware Billy Jack Haynes defeated Butch Reed WWF Tag Team Champions Davey Boy Smith & Sivi Afi (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Ricky Steamboat defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Allentown, PA – Agricultural Hall – January 9, 1987 (3,000) Tom Magee defeated Barry O Scott McGhee defeated the Red Demon Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Pedro Morales defeated Don Muraco Moondog Spot defeated Cousin Luke Jake Roberts defeated George Steele in a steel cage match after Jake took Damien the snake out of his bag, with Steele then playing with the snake as Roberts escapedWWF @ Huntsville, AL – Von Braun Civic Center – January 9, 1987 (10,000)Debut in Huntsville Bob Orton Jr. defeated SD Jones Sika defeated Lanny Poffo Nikolai Volkoff won a 20-man $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal by last eliminating Lanny Poffo; other participants included: Sika, Jerry Allen, SD Jones, Ron Bass, Cpl. Kirchner, the Junkyard Dog, Hillbilly Jim, Jimmy Jack Funk, Dick Slater, Iron Mike Sharpe, the Iron Sheik, Blackjack Mulligan, Kamala & Bob Orton Jr.; after the bout, Mulligan returned to the ring and threw Volkoff over the top rope to the floor as he was singing the Russian national anthem in victory Ron Bass fought Cpl. Kirchner to a draw Hillbilly Jim defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Dick Slater defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Blackjack Mulligan defeated the Iron Sheik in 30 seconds The Junkyard Dog defeated Nikolai Volkoff Kamala pinned Jerry Allen with a splash; after the bout, Allen was taken from ringside on a stretcher Roddy Piper defeated Adrian AdonisWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – January 9, 1987 (20,302; sell out) King Tonga fought King Kong Bundy to a double disqualification Hercules defeated Sivi Afi at 9:18 Koko B. Ware defeated King Harley Race at 13:20 The Honkytonk Man fought the Tonga Kid to a 20-minute time-limit draw Butch Reed defeated Billy Jack Haynes at 22:23 Dino Bravo fought Raymond Rougeau (sub. for Jacques Rougeau) to a double disqualification at 9:43 WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & Tito Santana (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart at 12:08 when Santana pinned Bret WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant who gave his title shot to Steamboat) via disqualification at 9:37WWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – January 10, 1987 (14,067)Televised on the PRISM Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Dick Graham on commentary: Scott McGhee pinned Terry Gibbs at 8:56 with a sunset flip out of the corner Koko B. Ware fought Don Muraco to a time-limit draw at 16:50 Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake (w/ Johnny V) defeated Dan Spivey & Mike Rotundo at 15:43 when Beefcake pinned Spivey after Valentine clotheslined Spivey as he attempted the bulldog on Beefcake The Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele via disqualification at 6:14 after Steele shoved the referee down with a chair Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Paul Roma at 6:10 with a back suplex King Kong Bundy fought Jake Roberts to a double count-out at 6:58 when both men began brawling on the floor; after the bout, Bundy attempted the Avalanche but Roberts moved out of the way and chased Bundy from the ring with Damien; the ring announcer mistakenly announced the decision as a double disqualification WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart at 14:48 when JYD pinned Neidhart after Smith reversed Neidhart’s small package behind the referee’s back; after the bout, referee Danny Davis was upset with himself for giving Neidhart a fast count when he thought it was JYD who had his shoulders down Jose Luis Rivera pinned Barry O at 3:49 with a suplex; Rivera should have won the match with a small package moments earlier but the referee stopped his count at 2, forgetting that was supposed to be the finish of the match WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant) via disqualification at 6:10 after Steamboat elbowed the referee as he attempted to get a steel chair away from himWWF @ Birmingham, AL – Boutwell Auditorium – January 10, 1987 Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis Nikolai Volkoff won a bunkhouse battle royalWWF @ Milwaukee, WI – Mecca – January 10, 1987 Moondog Spot defeated Stoney Burke Sivi Afi pinned Steve Lombardi Butch Reed pinned Pedro Morales King Harley Race defeated Billy Jack Haynes Tito Santana fought Hercules to a draw Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Islanders WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala via disqualificationWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – January 11, 1987 (17,500; sell out)Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Johnny V on commentary; Billy Red Lyons subbed for Johnny V during the three matches Johnny V was involved inPrime Time Wrestling – 2/23/87: Jose Luis Rivera pinned Terry Gibbs at 7:57 with a sunset flip out of the cornerPrime Time Wrestling – 1/26/87: Don Muraco fought Koko B. Ware to a 20-minute time-limit drawPrime Time Wrestling – 1/26/87: Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake (w/ Johnny V) defeated Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey at 17:21 when Valentine hit Spivey with a double axe handle as Spivey had Beefcake covered, with Beefcake scoring the pinPrime Time Wrestling – 5/4/87: George Steele defeated Johnny V (sub. for the Honkytonk Man) (w/ the Honkytonk Man, wearing an arm cast and in a sling) via disqualification at 1:59 when Honky attacked Steele with the cast and choked him with the sling; after the bout, Steele chased both men awayPrime Time Wrestling – 1/26/87: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Scott McGhee with a back suplex at 5:54 Jake Roberts fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-out at 6:43 when both men began brawling on the floor; after the bout, Bundy attempted the Avalanche but Roberts moved out of the way and chased Bundy from the ring with DamienPrime Time Wrestling – 1/26/87: Paul Roma pinned Barry O at 6:28 with a powerslamPrime Time Wrestling – 1/26/87: WWF Tag Team Champions Davey Boy Smith & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart at 14:44 when JYD pinned Bret after Smith reversed Bret’s small package behind the referee’s back; after the bout, referee Danny Davis was upset with himself for giving Bret a fast count, as he thought JYD was the one being pinned; after the bout and after Matilda chased the heels from the ring, JYD invited a few kids into the ring to dance with him but instead was mobbed by about 40 fans, forcing security to escort JYD backstage and get everyone out of the ring WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) in a steel cage match at 6:20 by escaping through the door; late in the bout, both Kimchee and the Wizard interfered, with Kimchee dropping the referee with a bodyslam and Hogan then attacking them and Kamala before escaping; after the match, Hogan reentered the cage and cleared Kamala and Kimchee out the doorWWF @ Madison, WI – Dane County Coliseum – January 11, 1987 Jack Krueger vs. Moondog Spot Sivi Afi vs. Stoney Burke Pedro Morales vs. Hercules Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the Islanders Billy Jack Haynes vs. Butch Reed Tito Santana vs. King Harley Race WWF IC Champion Randy Savage vs. Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant)WWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – January 11, 1987 (5,260) Roddy Piper pinned Adrian Adonis The Iron Sheik won a bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: the Junkyard Dog, Hillbilly Jim, Cpl. Kirchner, Bob Orton Jr., & Nikolai Volkoff Also included 8 other matchesWWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – January 12, 1987 (3,700) Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Dino Bravo defeated Paul Roma Candice Pardue defeated Judy Martin Outback Jack defeated Barry O Sivi Afi (sub. for Raymond Rougeau) & Jacques Rougeau fought the Islanders to a double count-out Billy Jack Haynes defeated King Harley Race via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Davey Boy Smith & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for Dynamite Kid) defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.WWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – January 12, 1987 The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Pedro Morales vs. Butch Reed Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Jake Roberts vs. King Kong Bundy George Steele vs. the Honkytonk Man WWF IC Champion Randy Savage vs. Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant)WWF @ Louisville, KY – Louisville Gardens – January 12, 1987 Roddy Piper vs. Adrian Adonis $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal involving: the Junkyard Dog, the Iron Sheik, Hillbilly Jim, Blackjack Mulligan, & Nikolai Volkoff Also included 8 other matchesWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – January 13, 1987 (4,500) The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook The Honkytonk Man fought George Steele to a double count-out King Kong Bundy pinned Pedro Morales WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant) via disqualification at 7:40 Butch Reed defeated Jake Roberts via count-out Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – January 13, 1987 Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell co-won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal by last eliminating Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik; other participants included: Blackjack Mulligan, Iron Mike Sharpe, Jimmy Jack Funk, Hercules, Dick Slater, Hillbilly Jim, Sika, the Junkyard Dog, Frenchy Martin, Mr. Fuji, Lanny Poffo, Cpl. Kirchner, Tiger Chung Lee, Jerry Allen, Ron Bass, & SD JonesWWF @ Niagara Falls, Ontario – Memorial Arena – January 13, 1987 (4,570; sell out) Tom Magee pinned Terry Gibbs Dino Bravo pinned Paul Roma Candice Pardue pinned Judy Martin Outback Jack pinned Barry O The Islanders fought Raymond Rougeau & Sivi Afi (sub. for Jacques Rougeau) to a double disqualification Billy Jack Haynes defeated King Harley Race via disqualification The Junkyard Dog (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) & WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. when JYD pinned MuracoWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – January 14, 1987 The Iron Sheik defeated SD Jones Dick Slater defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Hercules defeated Jose Luis Rivera Ron Bass defeated Jerry Allen Cpl. Kirchner defeated Sika Blackjack Mulligan defeated Tiger Chung Lee Lanny Poffo defeated Jimmy Jack Funk B. Brian Blair defeated Frenchy Martin Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis Nikolai Volkoff won a 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Hillbilly Jim, Mr. Fuji, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, the Iron Sheik, SD Jones, Dick Slater, Iron Mike Sharpe, Hercules, Jose Luis Rivera, Ron Bass, Jerry Allen, Cpl. Kirchner, Sika, Blackjack Mulligan, Tiger Chung Lee, Lanny Poffo, Jimmy Jack Funk, & Frenchy MartinWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – January 14, 1987 Jake Roberts vs. King Kong Bundy George Steele vs. the Honkytonk Man Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake vs. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk WWF IC Champion Randy Savage vs. Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Ithaca, NY – Ben Light Gym – January 14, 1987 WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & ? (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion the Dynamite Kid) vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Also included 6 other matchesWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – January 15, 1987 (5,785) Moondog Spot pinned Jack Kruger King Kong Bundy pinned Pedro Morales The Karate Kid & Little Coco defeated Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake George Steele defeated the Honkytonk Man via disqualification Jake Roberts fought Butch Reed to a double count-out WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant) via disqualificationWWF @ Altoona, PA – Jaffa Mosque – January 15, 1987 Scott McGhee defeated Terry Gibbs Outback Jack defeated Barry O Dino Bravo defeated Paul Roma Sivi Afi (sub. for Jacques Rougeau) & Raymond Rougeau fought the Islanders to a double disqualification King Harley Race defeated Billy Jack Haynes via disqualification Candice Pardue defeated Judy Martin WWF Tag Team Champions Davey Boy Smith & Bruno Sammartino (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion the Dynamite Kid) defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. via disqualification– 1/15/87: Jim Neidhart was arrested for allegedly punching a flight attendant during a flight from Pittsburgh to Tampa. He was released on a $10,000 unsecured bond. Neidhart was indicted by a grand jury but later aquitted of the charges in the spring.WWF @ Struthers, OH – Fieldhouse – January 15, 1987 (2,350)B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart was to take place but Neidhart didn’t appear due to legal problems Sika pinned Lanny Poffo Dick Slater pinned Tiger Chung Lee Cpl. Kirchner defeated Ron Bass via disqualification Hercules pinned SD Jones Blackjack Mulligan pinned Nikolai Volkoff The Junkyard Dog pinned the Iron SheikWWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – January 16, 1987 (8,012) SD Jones defeated Iron Mike Sharpe B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Blackjack Mulligan pinned Nikolai Volkoff after a few seconds The Junkyard Dog fought King Harley Race to a double count-out Ron Bass defeated Jerry Allen WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart; Danny Davis was the referee for the bout Hercules defeated Jose Luis Rivera Sika defeated Lanny Poffo WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualificationWWF @ Denver, CO – McNichols Arena – January 16, 1987 The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook The Honkytonk Man vs. George Steele Moondog Spot vs. Jack Kruger Pedro Morales vs. Butch Reed Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Jake Roberts vs. King Kong Bundy WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. KamalaWWF @ Hagerstown, MD – High School – January 16, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Barry O Dino Bravo vs. Dick Slater The Islanders vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Billy Jack Haynes vs. the Iron SheikWWF @ Rochester, NY – War Memorial – January 17, 1987 (5,200) Hercules won a bunkhouse battle royal The Junkyard Dog (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) & WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith defeated Bret Hart & Jim NeidhartWWF @ Houston, TX – Summit – January 17, 1987 (3,855) Included Jake Roberts and George SteeleWWF @ Greensburg, PA – Hempfield Senior High School – January 17, 1987 (1,200) Paul Roma defeated Tiger Chung Lee Candice Pardue defeated Judy Martin Outback Jack defeated Barry O Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Sivi Afi (sub. for Jacques Rougeau) & Raymond Rougeau fought the Islanders to a double disqualification Dick Slater fought Dino Bravo to a time limit draw at 11:45 Outback Jack defeated the Iron Sheik Billy Jack Haynes pinned HerculesWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – January 18, 1987 Ron Bass defeated SD Jones Hercules defeated Lanny Poffo (sub. for Hillbilly Jim) George Steele defeated the Iron Sheik Dino Bravo defeated Billy Jack Haynes via count-out B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. The Junkyard Dog fought King Harley Race to a double count-out Blackjack Mulligan (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) & WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualificationWWF @ Colorado Springs, CO – City Auditorium – January 18, 1987Debut in Colorado Springs The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Pedro Morales vs. the Honkytonk Man Cpl. Kirchner vs. Moondog Spot Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Jake Roberts vs. King Kong BundyWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – January 18, 1987 (5,267) Danny Spivey defeated Tiger Chung Lee Mike Rotundo defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Raymond Rougeau defeated Terry Gibbs Joe Mirto defeated Steve Lombardi Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Koko B. Ware defeated Paul Orndorff via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Augusta, GA – Augusta-Richmond County Civic Center – January 19, 1987 Blackjack Mulligan vs. Terry Gibbs Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey vs. Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Ricky Steamboat vs. WWF IC Champion Randy SavageWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – January 19, 1987 (sell out)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Gene Okerlund on commentary; featured Okerlund presenting an award to Howard Finkel to celebrate Finkel’s 10th anniversary as the MSG ring announcer:Prime Time Wrestling – 2/2/87: Brad Reinghans pinned Frenchy Martin with a diving shoulderblock from the middle turnbuckle at 16:49 (Reinghans’ debut)All American Wrestling – 2/8/87: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake at 18:36 when Martel pinned Valentine with a springboard splash into the ring, while Valentine had Zenk in the figure-4 (Martel’s return to MSG after a 5-year absence; Zenk’s MSG debut) (Best of the WWF Vol. 11)Prime Time Wrestling – 2/2/87: Ron Bass pinned SD Jones at 6:56 with the Pedigree (Bass’ MSG debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 2/2/87: Paul Orndorff (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated George Steele via disqualification at 6:00 when Steele swung a steel chair at the referee; before the bout, Heenan tore up a poster of Miss Elizabeth, distracting George during the match as he attempted to put the remains back together; after the match, Orndorff attacked Steele and was about to hit him with the chair but Steele blocked the move and chased Orndorff away with it (Best of the WWF Vol. 12)Prime Time Wrestling – 2/2/87: Tiger Chung Lee pinned Jerry Allen at 7:34 with an elbow drop after Allen missed a crossbody WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) in a No DQ match at 7:56 with the legdrop after hitting the challenger with the Wizard’s horn; after the bout, Andre the Giant came to the ring, picked up the title belt, looked at it, and then tossed it to the champion before leaving the ring (Kamala’s last MSG appearance for nearly 6 years)Prime Time Wrestling – 2/13/87: Lanny Poffo pinned the Red Demon at 14:38 with a somersault splash off the top; prior to the bout, Jimmy Hart came out and announced that if the Hart Foundation could beat Davey Boy Smith later in the show then they would win one-half of the WWF Tag Team ChampionshipAll American Wrestling – 2/8/87: The Junkyard Dog defeated King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) via count-out at 5:27 after shoving Race into the ringpost; after the bout, Race attacked JYD from behind with his own chain and tied him up, while Heenan slapped JYD and tried to force the unconscious JYD to bow before the King; prior to the bout, a representative of the NY State Athletic Commission came out and ordered Danny Davis to leave ringside after Davis came out and tried to tell the referee he was officiating the matchPrime Time Wrestling – 2/13/87: Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) & WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 9:26 when Bret submitted to Haynes’ full nelson; Danny Davis was the original referee for the bout but was knocked out late in the contest, with another referee coming to the ring to stop the matchWWF @ Lincoln, NE – Pershing Auditorium – January 19, 1987 (4,332)Debut in Lincoln Jack Kruger defeated Bill Ellis (sub. for Moondog Spot) The Honkytonk Man pinned Pedro Morales The Karate Kid & Little Coco defeated Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Jake Roberts fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-out B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed (w/ Slick) in a steel cage matchWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – January 20, 1987 Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Dino Bravo defeated SD Jones King Kong Bundy fought Blackjack Mulligan to a double disqualification King Harley Race & Paul Orndorff defeated George Steele & the Junkyard Dog via disqualification The Honkytonk Man defeated Koko B. Ware Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake when Martel pinned Valentine with a slingshot splash into the ring as Valentine had the figure-4 applied on ZenkWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – January 20, 1987 Brad Rheingans vs. Barry O Sivi Afi vs. Kamala Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey vs. Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Hillbilly Jim vs. Hercules WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion the Dynamite Kid) vs. Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (Danny Davis as referee) Ricky Steamboat vs. WWF IC Champion Randy SavageWWF @ Victoria, British Columbia – Memorial Arena – January 21, 1987 (6,000; sell out) Ron Bass fought Nick Kiniski to a draw Butch Reed pinned Pedro Morales Billy Jack Haynes defeated Dino Bravo via count-out Jake Roberts pinned Cpl. Kirchner Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. after the Killer Bees used their masks to switch places in the ring Paul Orndorff fought Tito Santana to a double disqualification Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Brutus Beefcake & Greg ValentineWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – January 21, 1987 Brad Rheingans defeated Barry O Koko B. Ware pinned Tiger Chung Lee Hercules defeated Sivi Afi via submission Blackjack Mulligan (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion the Dynamite Kid) defeated Jim Neidhart WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith pinned Bret Hart Kamala defeated Hillbilly Jim; Danny Davis was the assigned referee for the bout WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & the Honkytonk Man defeated Ricky Steamboat & George Steele via disqualificationWWF @ Norwalk, CT – High School Gym – January 21, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Frenchy Martin vs. Scott McGhee Lanny Poffo vs. Jose Luis Rivera The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey vs. Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik The Junkyard Dog vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Arena – January 22, 1987 Hercules vs. Sivi Afi Blackjack Mulligan vs. Tiger Chung Lee The Honkytonk Man vs. Koko B. Ware Kamala vs. George Steele Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & ? (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion the Dynamite Kid)WWF @ Poughkeepsie, NY – Mid-Hudson Civic Center – January 22, 1987Postponed until 3/4WWF @ Vancouver, British Columbia – PNE Coliseum – January 22, 1987 (12,000) Billy Jack Haynes defeated Dino Bravo Pedro Morales fought Nick Kiniski to a draw Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Brutus Beefcake & Greg Valentine Ron Bass defeated Cpl. Kirchner Butch Reed defeated Tito Santana Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Jake Roberts fought Paul Orndorff to a double count-out WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualification at 14:00 when Steamboat used a chair as a weaponWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – January 23, 1987 (9,000) Mike Rotundo defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Brad Rheingans defeated Barry O Blackjack Mulligan defeated Nikolai Volkoff Tiger Chung Lee defeated Sivi Afi Hercules defeated Koko B. Ware The Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele WWF Tag Team Champions Davey Boy Smith & the Crusher (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart when Crusher pinned Bret with a roundhouse punch WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala in a No DQ matchWWF @ San Francisco, CA – Cow Palace – January 23, 1987 (7,500) Pedro Morales fought Nick Kiniski to a draw Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed via disqualification Billy Jack Haynes pinned Dino Bravo B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. after the Bees used their masks to switch places in the ring Ron Bass pinned Cpl. Kirchner WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualification at around the 10-minute mark Jake Roberts fought Paul Orndorff to a double count-out Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ Wayne, NJ – William Paterson College – January 23, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Jose Luis Rivera Frenchy Martin vs. Scott McGhee The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook SD Jones vs. Lanny Poffo Danny Spivey vs. the Iron Sheik The Junkyard Dog vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – January 24, 1987 (8,000) Sivi Afi defeated Tiger Chung Lee Brad Rheingans pinned Barry Horowitz Mike Rotundo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Blackjack Mulligan pinned Nikolai Volkoff Hercules pinned Koko B. Ware The Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & Roddy Piper (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart when Piper pinned Bret; Danny Davis was the original referee but was knocked out during the match WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualification when Steamboat hit the refereeWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – January 24, 1987 (16,000; sell out) Jake Roberts fought Paul Orndorff to a double count-out Billy Jack Haynes pinned Dino Bravo Tito Santana fought Butch Reed to a draw Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Ron Bass pinned Cpl. Kirchner Pedro Morales pinned Nick Kiniski WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala via disqualificationWWF @ Tunkhannock, PA – High School Gym – January 24, 1987 (1,254) Outback Jack vs. Jose Luis Rivera Scott McGhee vs. Frenchy Martin The Karate Kid & Little Coco vs. Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook SD Jones vs. Lanny Poffo Dan Spivey vs. the Iron Sheik Haku vs. King Harley RaceNATPE Convention – New Orleans, LA – January 24 or 25, 1987 Included matches featuring Scott McGhee, Jimmy Jack Funk, the Gladiator, Terry Gibbs, and Jerry Allen with Gene Okerlund & Bobby Heenan on commentaryWWF @ Tampa, FL – SunDome – January 26, 1987 (10,536; sell out)WWF Superstars taping: King Harley Race fought the Junkyard Dog to a double disqualification Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF Superstars (Montreal version) – 2/7/87: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Jerry Allen at 4:18 with a back suplex; Jesse Ventura & Bruno Sammartino provided commentary for the boutWWF Superstars (Montreal version) – 2/14/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Joe Mirto & Jim Haley at 2:58 when Raymond pinned Haley following the top rope double team move from the Rougeaus; Jesse Ventura & Bruno Sammartino provided commentary for the bout2/7/87 – included Andre the Giant turning heel and challenging Hulk Hogan to a title match at WrestleMania III during a Piper’s Pit segment: WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned David Gold in a non-title match at 1:39 with the flying elbow drop Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid to win the titles at 2:57 following a double DDT and the Hart Attack on Davey Boy Smith; Smith wrestled the entire match by himself after Dynamite was knocked out before the bout began by Jimmy Hart’s megaphone; Danny Davis was the referee for the bout and spent the duration of the match checking on the Dynamite Kid as the challengers illegally double teamed Smith (The Hart Foundation) Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Buddy Blake via submission with the full nelson at 3:06 Outback Jack pinned Steve Lombardi at 2:49 with a bulldog (Jack’s TV debut; he was introduced by Hillbilly Jim before the match) B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Al Navarro & Jimmy Jack Funk at 5:29 when Brunzell pinned Navaroo with a dropkick Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned David Stoudemire at 1:51 with a gorilla press slam and elbow drop; after the match, Slick cut a promo on Tito Santana2/14/87 – featured Hulk Hogan on the Piper’s Pit in which he accepted Andre the Giant’s challenge to face him at WrestleMania III: Tito Santana pinned Terry Gibbs with the flying forearm at the 20 second mark; prior to the match, WWF President Jack Tunney suspended referee Danny Davis for life; Jimmy Hart then came ringside and led Davis backstage Bob Orton Jr. & Don Muraco (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Leo Strohein & Lanny Poffo at 3:25 when Muraco pinned Srohein with the tombstone; after the match, Muraco & Orton further attacked their opponents The Junkyard Dog pinned John Valkower with the powerslam at 2:03 Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Mario Mancini & Sivi Afi at 1:19 when Ax pinned Mancini following the Decapitation (the 1st appearance of Barry Darsow playing the role of Smash) Ricky Steamboat pinned Tom Laxton with a karate chop at 2:02 Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Tiger Chung Lee & the Gladiator at 3:19 when Martel pinned the Gladiator with a slingshot splash into the ring2/21/87 – included footage of an empty-arena interview before the taping began in which Roddy Piper confirmed that his match at WrestleMania III would be his last: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated the Islanders at 4:33 when Neidhart pinned Tama after Davis tripped him as he came off the top rope King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Salvatore Bellomo at 1:09 with the cradle suplex Billy Jack Haynes defeated Morgan Bastien via submission with the full nelson at 2:13 Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake (w/ Johnny V & Dino Bravo) defeated Paul Roma & Frankie Rose at 2:53 when Rose submitted to Valentine’s figure-4 Koko B. Ware pinned the Red Demon at 3:10 with the Ghostbuster WWF @ Ft. Myers, FL – Lee Civic Center – January 27, 1987 (7,850; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping:WWF Superstars (Italian version): WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Andre the Giant) via disqualification at 10:10 after Steamboat elbowed referee Dave Hebner when he tried to stop Steamboat hitting Savage with a chair; Steamboat then chased Savage down the aisle and attacked Savage more until Hebner was able to hold him back; Elizabeth left ringside when the match began after Steamboat attacked Savage while she was still in the ring2/8/87 – included a pre-emption of the Snake Pit, with the same Piper’s Pit from the 2/7 Superstars airing instead; included the British Bulldogs / Hart Foundation title match from Superstars shown in full: Koko B. Ware pinned Jimmy Jack Funk with the Ghostbuster at 2:56 Jake Roberts pinned David Gold with the DDT at 1:11 Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated SD Jones & Don Driggers when Ax pinned Driggers with a clothesline after a slingshot from Smash at 1:58 Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Mario Mancini via submission with the sleeper at 1:13 Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Steve Lombardi & Iron Mike Sharpe when Martel pined Lombardi with a slingshot splash at 4:212/15/87 – included a pre-emption of the Snake Pit, with the same Piper’s Pit from the 2/14 Superstars airing instead: Hillbilly Jim, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, & Johnny V (w/ Dino Bravo) when Jacques pinned Johnny V with a small package at 2:43; after the bout, Hillbilly & the Rougeaus were cleared out of the ring but returned to chase the heels off WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Jerry Allen with the flying elbowsmash at the 29-second mark King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Moondog Spot with the cradle suplex at the 36-second mark Billy Jack Haynes defeated Tiger Chung Lee via submission with the Full Nelson at 2:53 B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the Gladiator & the Red Demon when Blair pinned Gladiator with the Bee Sing at 3:122/22/87 – featured the Snake Pit segment with the Honkytonk Man in which Honky hit Jake Roberts over the back with his guitar: Ricky Steamboat pinned Chic Donovan with the flying bodypress at 4:53 The Junkyard Dog pinned Barry O with the powerslam at 1:33 Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Salvatore Bellomo & David Stoudemire when Orton pinned Stoudimiere following the superplex at 2:04; Freddie Blassie did guest commentary for this and the following bout Butch Reed (w/ Slick) defeated George Steele via count-out at 1:33 when Steele chased Slick backstage; after the bout, Steele returned ringside with Koko B. Ware and the two attacked Reed with Koko hitting a missile dropkick off the topDark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala (sub. for Hercules)WWF @ Rockford, IL – Metro Centre – January 28, 1987 Ron Bass pinned Moondog Spot King Kong Bundy pinned Cpl. Kirchner Dick Slater pinned Jimmy Jack Funk Hillbilly Jim pinned Salvatore Bellomo Sika pinned Lanny Poffo Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Roddy Piper pinned Adrian Adonis Bobby Heenan won a 20-man bunkhouse battle royal by last eliminating the Crusher; order of elimination: King Kong Bundy, Salvatore Bellomo, Moondog Spot, Cpl. Kirchner, Smash, Raymond Rougeau, Ax, Mr. Fuji, Lanny Poffo, Rene Goulet, Sika, Hillbilly Jim, Jacques Rougeau, Jimmy Jack Funk, Dick Slater, Iron Mike Sharpe, Blackjack Mulligan, Ron Bass, the CrusherWWF @ Portland, ME – Cumberland County Civic Center – January 28, 1987 (2,718) King Harley Race vs. the Junkyard Dog Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Tito Santana vs. Jake Roberts Also included the Honkytonk Man, SD Jones, & Pedro MoralesWWF @ Decatur, IL – Civic Center – January 28, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Frenchy Martin Brad Rheingans vs. ? Outback Jack vs. Barry O Paul Orndorff vs. Koko B. Ware Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules WWF IC Champion Randy Savage vs. George Steele (winner walks away with Miss Elizabeth as their manager) Also included a women’s tag matchWWF @ Peoria, IL – Civic Center – January 29, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Barry O WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Paul Orndorff vs. Koko B. Ware Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules WWF IC Champion Randy Savage vs. George SteeleWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – January 29, 1987 Roddy Piper vs. Adrian Adonis Also included a 20-man $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal with participants including: King Kong Bundy, Hillbilly Jim, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Iron Mike Sharpe, Sika, Demolition, Bobby Heenan, Mr. Fuji, Dick Slater, Cpl. Kirchner, Ron Bass, & Blackjack Mulligan Also included 8 other matchesWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – January 29, 1987 (6,532) Paul Roma defeated the Red Demon Tiger Chung Lee defeated Jerry Allen SD Jones defeated Pete Doherty Sivi Afi defeated Terry Gibbs B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake The Honkytonk Man pinned Tito Santana after hitting him with a foreign object King Harley Race pinned Tony Garea (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Jake RobertsWWF @ Des Moines, IA – Veterans Memorial Auditorium – January 30, 1987 Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Demolition Paul Orndorff vs. Koko B. Ware Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated George Steele via disqualification when Steele threw 3 chairs into the ring; had Steele won, he would have earned the managerial rights to Miss Elizabeth Also included four other boutsWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – January 30, 1987 (10,000) Tiger Chung Lee defeated Jerry Allen King Harley Race defeated Sivi Afi SD Jones defeated Moondog Spot Adrian Adonis pinned Roddy Piper after guest referee Andre the Giant held Piper down while making the 3-count Jake Roberts defeated Tony Garea (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) Tito Santana defeated the Honkytonk Man via disqualification Blackjack Mulligan defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out Paul Roma defeated Terry Gibbs B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – January 31, 1987 (6,271) Brad Rheingans pinned Jimmy Jack Funk Lanny Poffo defeated the Red Demon (Jose Luis Rivera) Dick Slater pinned Moondog Spot Adrian Adonis pinned SD Jones Tito Santana fought Paul Orndorff to a 20-minute time-limit draw Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake WWF IC Champion Randy Savage fought Ricky Steamboat to a double disqualification when Roddy Piper & Adrian Adonis interfered Jake Roberts defeated Roddy Piper via count-out after Adrian Adonis interferedWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Civic Center – January 31, 1987 Paul Roma defeated Tiger Chung Lee Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a 20-minute time-limit draw Blackjack Mulligan defeated the Iron Sheik Sivi Afi defeated Terry Gibbs Kamala defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out Nikolai Volkoff defeated Jerry Allen Koko B. Ware defeated the Honkytonk Man B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.WWF @ Hammond, IN – Civic Center – January 31, 1987Debut in Hammond Outback Jack vs. Barry O WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Cpl. Kirchner vs. Sika Tom Magee vs. Frenchy Martin Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Demolition The Junkyard Dog vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – February 1, 1987 (10,000) Brad Rheingans pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Tama pinned Jimmy Jack Funk Sika pinned Haku Dino Bravo pinned Lanny Poffo Adrian Adonis pinned Dick Slater Tom Zenk & Rick Martel defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a double disqualification Ricky Steamboat & George Steele defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & the Honkytonk Man when Steamboat pinned Savage with a flying crossbodyWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – February 1, 1987 Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed WWF Tag Team Champion Davey Boy Smith & ? (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) vs. Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Nanticoke, PA – High School – February 1, 1987 (1,385)WWF @ Evansville, IN – Roberts Memorial Stadium – February 2, 1987 (6,000) Tama pinned Barry O with a flying bodypress off the top Lanny Poffo won a 20-man $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal by last eliminating Nikolai Volkoff; other participants: Blackjack Mulligan, Ron Bass, Hillbilly Jim, Iron Mike Sharpe, Dick Slater, Demolition, Moondog Spot, Mike Rotundo, Dan Spivey, Mr. Fuji, Sika, Jimmy Jack Funk, Barry O, the Islanders, the Raider, & Bobby Colt Roddy Piper pinned Adrian AdonisWWF @ Quebec City, Quebec – Colisee de Quebec – February 2, 1987 (9,000) Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Sivi Afi defeated Tiger Chung Lee Butch Reed fought Billy Jack Haynes to a draw Jerry Allen defeated Johnny V via disqualification when Dino Bravo interfered Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Dino Bravo defeated Tito Santana WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ West Milford, NJ – High School Gym – February 2, 1987 Scott McGhee vs. Frenchy Martin Pedro Morales vs. Terry Gibbs SD Jones vs. the Red Demon WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Cpl. Kirchner vs. the Iron Sheik King Kong Bundy vs. Koko B. WareWWF @ Nanticoke, PA – John S. Fine High School Gym – February 2, 1987 SD Jones vs. the Red Demon Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Don Muraco vs. Cpl. Kirchner King Kong Bundy vs. Koko B. WareWWF @ Huntington, NY – High School Gym – February 3, 1987 Included the Iron Sheik, Cpl. Kirchner, Pedro Morales, & King Kong BundyWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – February 3, 1987 Roddy Piper vs. Adrian Adonis Included a $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal featuring: Blackjack Mulligan, Dick Slater, Lanny Poffo, Hillbilly Jim, Moondog Spot, Mike Rotundo, Danny Spivey, the Islanders, Nick Kiniski, Mr. Fuji, Sika, Barry O, Jimmy Jack Funk, Ron Bass, Demolition, Iron Mike Sharpe, Nikolai Volkoff, & Steve Gatorwolf Also included 9 other matchesWWF @ Syracuse, NY – Onondoga War Memorial – February 3, 1987 Bruno Sammartino defeated Kamala via count-outWWF @ Watertown, NY – High School Gym – February 4, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. Steve Lombardi Paul Roma vs. Johnny V Tom Zenk vs. Dino Bravo Rick Martel vs. Butch Reed Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Billy Jack Haynes vs. KamalaWWF @ Lowell, MA – Memorial Auditorium – February 4, 1987 The Iron Sheik vs. Cpl. Kirchner WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Koko B. Ware defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out Also included Pedro Morales, SD Jones, & Pete DohertyWWF @ Salt Lake City, UT – Salt Palace – February 4, 1987 (3,995) Barry O defeated Mark Young Lanny Poffo defeated Steve Gatorwolf Danny Spivey & Mike Rotundo fought Demolition to a draw Ron Bass defeated Moondog Spot Blackjack Mulligan won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Barry O, Mark Young, Lanny Poffo, Steve Gatorwolf, Danny Spivey, Mike Rotundo, Demolition, Ron Bass, Moondog Spot, the Islanders, Iron Mike Sharpe, Nikolai Volkoff, Nick Kiniski, Hillbilly Jim, Jimmy Jack Funk, Mr. Fuji, Dick Slater, & Sika Roddy Piper pinned Adrian Adonis Tama defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Nikolai Volkoff defeated Nick Kiniski Hillbilly Jim defeated Jimmy Jack FunkWWF @ El Paso, TX – Civic Center – February 5, 1987 (4,186) Roddy Piper vs. Adrian Adonis Blackjack Mulligan won a bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included Mr. Fuji, Mike Rotundo & Danny SpiveyWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – February 5, 1987 Butch Reed vs. Cpl. Kirchner Billy Jack Haynes vs. the Iron Sheik WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart King Kong Bundy vs. Kamala WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated George Steele; had Steele won, he would have earned the managerial rights to Miss Elizabeth WWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – February 6, 1987Butch Reed defeated Jerry Monti Blackjack Mulligan defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Demolition defeated Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey Hillbilly Jim defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Blackjack Mulligan won a $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal by last eliminating Nikolai Volkoff; other participants included: Demolition, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Mike Rotundo, Danny Spivey, Hillbilly Jim, Ron Bass, Dick Slater, Sika, Lanny Poffo, Moondog Spot, Mr. Fuji, Jimmy Jack Funk, Iron Mike Sharpe, Nick Kiniski, Steve Gatorwolf, & Barry O Roddy Piper defeated Adrian AdonisWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – February 6, 1987Featured Pat Patterson interviewing Jacques & Raymond Rougeau SD Jones vs. Terry Gibbs Billy Jack Haynes vs. Steve Lombardi Butch Reed vs. Cpl. Kirchner WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli Koko B. Ware vs. the Iron Sheik King Kong Bundy vs. Kamala The Islanders vs. Dino Bravo & Paul Orndorff WWF IC Champion Randy Savage vs. Ricky Steamboat (No DQ match)– A tour of Australia scheduled from Feb. 7 – Feb. 13 was cancelledWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – February 7, 1987 (16,000; sell out)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Ken Resnick on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: Tama pinned Frenchy Martin (sub. for Butch Reed) with a flying bodypress after crawling under the ring and coming out the opposite side; during the bout, Slick did guest commentary alongside Gorilla Monsoon and Ken ResnickPrime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: Koko B. Ware pinned the Red Demon at 9:52 with a missile dropkickPrime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Billy Jack Haynes at 10:19 after Paul Orndorff interfered and hit a double axe handle off the top onto Haynes, who had the full nelson applied, as Heenan distracted the referee; prior to the match, Orndorff was introduced to the crowd before going backstage; during the match, Heenan joined the commentary team to discuss his association with Andre the GiantPrime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: Haku pinned Terry Gibbs at 4:28 with a diving headbutt from the middle turnbucklePrime Time Wrestling – 4/6/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart in a non-title match at 11:37 when Raymond pinned Bret following a double team move off the topPrime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: King Kong Bundy defeated Pete Doherty via disqualification at 3:02 after Doherty hit Bundy with a steel chairPrime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: Ricky Steamboat pinned Sika with a roll up at 4:06 after Sika hit the corner; after the match, Sika threw Steamboat from the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 2/16/87: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned SD Jones at 7:29 with the side suplex; during the bout, Johnny V briefly joined the commentary team Bruno Sammartino defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage via disqualification in a lumberjack match at 4:14 when King Kong Bundy interfered and attacked the challenger as Sammartino had Savage caught in the bearhug; after the bout, Sammartino and Ricky Steamboat were the sole survivors of a brawl involving all of the lumberjacks; lumberjacks included: Ricky Steamboat, Frenchy Martin, Dino Bravo, SD Jones, Koko B. Ware, Haku, King Kong Bundy, Sika, and several others (Even More Unusual Matches)WWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – February 7, 1987 (7,000) Barry O defeated Moondog Spot Cpl. Kirchner defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Dick Slater defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Demolition defeated Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Roddy Piper fought Adrian Adonis to a double disqualification King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Kamala in a No DQ Match with the legdrop after throwing powder in Kamala’s eyesWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – February 8, 1987 (13,383) Sika defeated Brad Rheingans Billy Jack Haynes vs. Butch Reed Dino Bravo pinned Pedro Morales The Honkytonk Man pinned Koko B. Ware The Islanders defeated Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double disqualification WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualification Hercules defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-outWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – February 8, 1987 (5,000) The Junkyard Dog & George Steele vs. King Harley Race & Paul Orndorff Also included a $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal featuring the Junkyard Dog, George Steele, King Harley Race, Paul Orndorff, Nick Kiniski, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Demolition, Lanny Poffo, Cpl. Kirchner, Nikolai Volkoff, the Iron Sheik, Jimmy Jack Funk, Dick Slater, Ron Bass, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart, Rick Martel and Tom ZenkWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – February 9, 1987 (6,000) Pedro Morales defeated Frenchy Martin Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Sika pinned SD Jones Dino Bravo pinned Brad Rheingans Hercules vs. Billy Jack Haynes (Danny Davis as the announced referee) Mike Rotundo & Dan Spivey defeated the Islanders The Honkytonk Man pinned Koko B. Ware Kamala fought Jake Roberts to a double count-out WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned Ricky Steamboat with a roll overWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – February 9, 1987 (5,248) Jimmy Jack Funk defeated Mark Young The Iron Sheik defeated Lanny Poffo Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Ron Bass defeated Nick Kiniski Cpl. Kirchner defeated Nikolai Volkoff via disqualification Jim Neidhart defeated Dick Slater King Harley Race & Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for Paul Orndorff) defeated George Steele & the Junkyard Dog via disqualification Bret Hart won a $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal; other particpants included: George Steele, the Junkyard Dog, King Harley Race, Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for Paul Orndorff), Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Jimmy Jack Funk, Mark Young, the Iron Sheik, Lanny Poffo, Demolition, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Ron Bass, Nick Kiniski, Cpl. Kirchner, Nikolai Volkoff, Jim Neidhart & Dick Slater WWF @ Portland, OR – Memorial Coliseum – February 10, 1987 Jimmy Jack Funk defeated Lanny Poffo The Iron Sheik defeated Jim Brunzell Rick Martel & Tom Zenk fought Demolition to a draw Ron Bass defeated Nick Kiniski Jim Neidhart won a bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included Bret Hart and several others Cpl. Kirchner defeated Nikolai Volkoff Bret Hart defeated B. Brian Blair King Harley Race & Bob Orton Jr. defeated the Junkyard Dog & George SteeleWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – February 10, 1987 (4,500) Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Dino Bravo pinned Dick Slater Sika pinned Pedro Morales The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones The Islanders defeated Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey to a double disqualification Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double count-out Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes; Danny Davis was the referee for the bout WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Oakland, CA – Coliseum – February 11, 1987 (6,000) Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Cpl. Kirchner defeated Jimmy Jack Funk King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog The Iron Sheik defeated Dick Slater Nikolai Volkoff defeated Nick Kiniski Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for Paul Orndorff) defeated George Steele via disqualification after less than 5 seconds Adrian Adonis defeated Roddy Piper via disqualification Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart in a non-title matchWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – February 11, 1987 Kamala & Sika vs. Mike Rotundo & Dan Spivey Jake Roberts vs. Haku; Danny Davis was the announced referee for the match WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & Hercules vs. Ricky Steamboat & Billy Jack Haynes Also included 4 other matchesWWF @ Kansas City, MO – Kemper Arena – February 12, 1987 (12,000) Dino Bravo pinned Brad Rheingans Sika defeated Moondog Spot Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones Mike Rotundo & Danny Spivey fought the Islanders to a double disqualification Jake Roberts pinned Pedro Morales Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes Ricky Steamboat fought WWF IC Champion Randy Savage to a double count-out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned KamalaWWF @ Spokane, WA – Coliseum – February 12, 1987 (4,785) The Junkyard Dog & George Steele vs. Paul Orndorff & King Harley Race 20 man $50,000 bunkhouse battle royal including Roddy Piper, the Junkyard Dog, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Harley Race, WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart, WWF Tag Team Champion Jim Neidhart, Ron Bass, Adrian Adonis, George Steele, and Dick Slater Roddy Piper vs. Adrian Adonis– 2/13/87: Over the Top, featuring Terry Funk, opens in US theaters.WWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – February 13, 1987 (8,920) Ron Bass pinned Nick Kiniski The Iron Sheik defeated Dick Slater Nikolai Volkoff defeated Lanny Poffo Cpl. Kirchner pinned Jimmy Jack Funk King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog after reversing an inside cradle Jake Roberts defeated George Steele via disqualification Adrian Adonis defeated Roddy Piper via disqualification Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Jim Brunzell, & B. Brian Blair defeated Demolition, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart when Martel pinned Bret after all four babyfaces put on masks to switch places in the ringWWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – February 13, 1987 (11,500) Pedro Morales defeated Moondog Spot Kamala & Sika defeated the Islanders Koko B. Ware defeated Paul Orndorff Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes; Danny Davis was the referee for the bout The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo & Johnny V Brad Rheingans pinned Barry O Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – February 14, 1987 (matinee) (19,416)Televised on the PRISM Network – featured Gorilla Monsoon & Dick Graham on commentary: Paul Roma fought Steve Lombardi to a time-limit draw at 18:43; after the bout, Lombardi attacked Roma from behind after Roma challenged him to 5 more minutes Dino Bravo pinned Pedro Morales at 8:41 with the side suplex even though Morales had his foot on the ropes during the pin Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a double count-out at 7:59 when both men began brawling on the floor; prior to the bout, Danny Davis came out and told referee Joey Marella he was the assigned referee for the bout but a commissioner came into the ring and ordered Davis to leave ringside and reminded him he was suspended The Islanders defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau at 7:53 when Tama pinned Jacques with a roll up and fast count from the referee WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) via disqualification at 6:23 when Kimchee interfered and attacked the champion after he hit the legdrop on Kamala; moments later, Kimchee dropped Hogan with a piledriver before unmasking himself to be Paul Orndorff; Kamala then hit a splash on the champion; the Islanders and Billy Jack Haynes eventually made the save for Hogan Sika pinned SD Jones at 3:41 with the Samoan Drop The Honkytonk Man pinned Koko B. Ware at 5:14 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; after the bout, Koko cleared Honky from the ring with a missile dropkick as Honky began dancing to his theme music Brad Reinghans pinned Moondog Spot at 4:03 with a rolling cradle WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned Ricky Steamboat at 7:42 with a roll over and using the tights for leverageWWF @ Calgary, Alberta – Saddledome – February 14, 1987 Les Thornton fought Johnny Smith to a draw Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Jimmy Jack Funk defeated Mark Young The Iron Sheik defeated Dick Slater via disqualification Jake Roberts defeated Ted Arcidi Nikolai Volkoff defeated Cpl. Kirchner King Harley Race defeated the Junkyard Dog Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Jim Brunzell, & B. Brian Blair defeated Demolition, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim NeidhartWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Civic Center – February 14, 1987 (10,000) Brad Rhiengans defeated Moondog Spot Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Dino Bravo defeated SD Jones Jim Duggan defeated Sika The Islanders defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau The Honkytonk Man defeated Pedro Morales Koko B. Ware defeated Paul Orndorff via disqualification WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & Hercules defeated Ricky Steamboat & Billy Jack Haynes WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala in a steel cage matchWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – February 15, 1987 (17,000)Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan on commentary with Billy Red Lyons subbing for Heenan during the Race / JYD and Harts / Bees matchesPrime Time Wrestling – 3/2/87: Ron Bass pinned SD Jones at 6:53 with a flying back elbowPrime Time Wrestling – 3/2/87: Sika pinned Moondog Spot at 6:56 with a Samoan DropPrime Time Wrestling – 3/2/87: Cpl. Kirchner pinned Johnny K-9 (sub. for Butch Reed) with a Samoan Drop at 11:11; prior to the bout, Slick came to the ring and announced that Reed would not be able to compete because he was suffering from the flu; Kirchner then chased Slick backstage Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at 10:07 after Adonis sprayed perfume in Piper’s eyes; after the bout, a blinded Piper attacked the ring announcer and refereePrime Time Wrestling – 3/2/87: Paul Orndorff (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Pedro Morales at 4:29 with his feet on the ropes after the momentum of a crossbody by Morales put Orndorff on top King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned the Junkyard Dog at 6:08 with a belly to belly suplex after JYD began attacking Heenan in the ring WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Ricky Steamboat at 13:39 with a reverse roll up and grabbing the tights for leveragePrime Time Wrestling – 3/2/87: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) in a non-title match at 7:37 after Blair – the illegal man – pinned Bret with a sunset flip off the top after the Bees used their masks to switch places in the ringWWF @ Cincinnati, OH – Riverfront Coliseum – February 15, 1987 Dan Spivey defeated Demolition Smash Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Dino Bravo defeated Brad Rhiengans Dick Slater defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Hercules fought Billy Jack Haynes to a double count-out Jake Roberts fought Tito Santana to a draw Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Mt. Vernon, NY – High School Gym – February 15, 1987 (1,200) Tama defeated Frenchy Martin Hillbilly Jim defeated Mr. Fuji Outback Jack defeated Tiger Chung Lee Koko B. Ware fought the Honkytonk Man to a no contest Tom Magee defeated Barry O Jim Duggan defeated Terry Gibbs Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – February 16, 1987 (8,900)WWF Superstars taping: Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis at around the 6-minute mark WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Hercules at around the 6-minute markInternational Wrestling Challenge: Blackjack Mulligan pinned Joe Mirto with a flying back elbow at 2:20Prime Time Wrestling – 4/6/87: Ron Bass pinned Salvatore Bellomo with a flying back elbow at 3:30Prime Time Wrestling – 4/27/87: The Islanders defeated the Gladiator & Moondog Spot when Tama pinned the Gladiator with a splash off the top at 5:282/28/87 – included Davey Boy Smith, the Dynamite Kid, & Tito Santana as guests of the Piper’s Pit: Billy Jack Haynes defeated King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) via disqualification at 1:55 when Heenan interfered as Bundy was caught in the full nelson; after the match, Hercules helped in double teaming Haynes Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dave Wagner & Rick Renslow at 1:49 when Raymond pinned Wagner after a double team move The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jerry Monti at 1:32 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) pinned David Stoudemire at the 56 second mark following a splash off the top Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, & Lanny Poffo defeated Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart), Brutus Beefcake, & Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) at 3:34 when Martel pinned Beefcake with a roll up after Adonis accidentally cut some of Beefcake’s hair3/7/87 – included Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan as guests of the Piper’s Pit in which Capt. Lou Albano interrupted and attempted to reason with Andre about joining Heenan: The Junkyard Dog pinned Pete Doherty with the powerslam at 2:27 Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Mike Luca & Tommy Sharpe at 1:45 when Ax scored the pin with a clothesline Ricky Steamboat pinned Terry Gibbs at 3:27 with the flying bodypress The Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) defeated SD Jones & Brad Rheighans at 3:05 when Jones submitted to the Camel Clutch WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Danny Davis & Jimmy Hart) defeated Jerry Allen & Jim Powers in a non-title match at 1:48 when Bret pinned Allen following the Hart Attack (The Hart Foundation)3/14/87 – included WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan as a guest of the Piper’s Pit: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Tiger Chung Lee & Iron Mike Sharpe at 4:48 when Brunzell pinned Lee with a dropkick King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Don Driggers at 1:45 with a cradle suplex Koko B. Ware pinned Barry O at 2:43 with the Ghostbuster Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Mario Mancini via submission with the full nelson at 1:20 WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Sivi Afi at 1:37 with the flying elbowsmashWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – February 17, 1987 (9,000; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping: Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs via submission Ron Bass defeated Jerry Allen WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned KamalaInternational Wrestling Challenge: Jake Roberts (sub. for George Steele) pinned WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) with the DDT at 6:22 in a non-title matchPrime Time Wrestling – 2/23/87: The Islanders defeated Joe Mirto & Al Navarro when Tama pinned Navarro with a splash off the top; during the bout, a fan attempted to enter the ring but was pulled away by security after climbing on the apronWrestling Spotlight – 2/28/87: Blackjack Mulligan pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 3:21 with a flying back elbow; Bobby Heenan & Johnny V provided commentary for the bout3/1/87 – included Bobby Heenan and Hercules on the Snake Pit; the scheduled contest between Roddy Piper and Paul Orndorff did not take place: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated SD Jones & Lanny Poffo when Bret pinned Jones following the Hart Attack at 2:35; after the bout, Davis attacked Jones King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Mario Mancini with the cradle suplex at 1:25 Koko B. Ware pinned Iron Mike Sharpe with the Ghostbuster at 1:59 WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Jim Powers with the flying elbowsmash at 1:41 Bruno Sammartino defeated Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick & the Iron Sheik) via disqualification at 2:37 when Sheik interfered; after the bout, B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell made the save3/8/87 – included Hillbilly Jim, the Haiti Kid, and Little Beaver on the Snake Pit: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Jimmy Jack Funk & the Gladiator when Zenk pinned Gladiator with a slingshot splash at 5:03 Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Don Driggers via submission with the sleeper at 2:20 Tito Santana pinned Barry O with the flying forearm at 4:40; during the bout Slick came ringside and attacked Santana with his cane Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) pinned Jerry Monti with a splash off the top at 1:03 The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Dave Stoudemire with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll at 2:463/15/87 – hosted by Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan; included highlights of the Billy Jack Haynes vs. King Kong Bundy match from the 2/28/87 WWF Superstars and attack on Haynes from Hercules; included Jesse Ventura interviewing Bob Uecker about appearing at WrestleMania III; featured a promo from Jake Roberts & Alice Cooper about Jake’s match with the Honkytonk Man at WrestleMania III; included Bobby Heenan & Andre the Giant as guests of the Snake Pit, where Heenan answered all of Andre’s questions for him and wouldn’t allow Andre to speak; included a WrestleMania III Report hosted by Gene Okerlund: Billy Jack Haynes defeated Moondog Spot via submission at 1:10 with the full nelson; during the bout, an insert promo from Haynes was shown about his match with Hercules at WrestleMania III Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Paul Roma, Salvatore Bellomo, & Mike Luca at 3:52 when Bravo pinned Luca with a back suplex following a backbreaker from Beefcake; during the bout, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau cut an insert promo on WrestleMania III; Beefcake wrestled wearing a bandana to hide where Adrian Adonis had recently cut off some of his hair, with Roma pulling the bandana off during the match The Junkyard Dog pinned Rick Renslow at 1:02 with the powerslam; prior to the bout, Bobby Heenan cut an insert promo alongside King Harley Race about the upcoming match with JYD at WrestleMania III Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Tommy Sharp & Sivi Afi at the 2-minute mark when Ax pinned Sharp following the Decapitation; during the bout, Aretha Franklin cut an insert promo about appearing at WrestleMania III Ricky Steamboat pinned Pete Doherty at 4:54 with a karate chop off the top; during the bout, WWF IC Champion Randy Savage cut an insert promo on Steamboat and their match coming up at WrestleMania IIIWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – February 18, 1987 Jerry Allen fought Terry Gibbs to a draw Sivi Afi defeated the Assassin Jacques & Raymond Rougeau fought Dino Bravo & Johnny V to a draw King Harley Race defeated the Junkyard Dog via count-out B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart in a non-title match Roddy Piper defeated Adrian AdonisWWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – February 18, 1987 (4,150) SD Jones defeated Joe Mirto Scott McGhee vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Penny Mitchell Butch Reed defeated Pedro Morales Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik defeated the Islanders Jake Roberts defeated Koko B. Ware Ricky Steamboat & Davey Boy Smith (sub. for George Steele) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – February 18, 1987 Tom Magee defeated the Red Demon at 5:13 King Kong Bundy defeated Cpl. Kirchner at 4:38 Outback Jack defeated Moondog Spot at 10:32 Hillbilly Jim defeated Ron Bass via disqualification at 13:17 Kamala defeated Lanny Poffo at 2:36 Blackjack Mulligan defeated Jimmy Jack Funk at 3:24 Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a draw King Kong Bundy won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Bobby Heenan, Chief Jay Strongbow, Arnold Skaaland, Mr, Fuji, Tom Magee, the Red Demon, Cpl. Kirchner, Dick Slater, Outback Jack, Moondog Spot, Hillbilly Jim, Ron Bass, Kamala, Lanny Poffo, Blackjack Mulligan, Jimmy Jack Funk, Billy Jack Haynes, & HerculesWWF @ Winston-Salem, NC – Memorial – Coliseum – February 19, 1987 Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a drawwins Blackjack Mulligan pinned Nikolai Volkoff King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo The Iron Sheik defeated Cpl. Kirchner WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – February 19, 1987 (4,200) Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Joe Mirto (sub. for Scott McGhee) WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Penny Mitchell Butch Reed defeated Pedro Morales The Islanders defeated Danny Spivey & SD Jones (sub. for Mike Rotundo) Koko B. Ware defeated the Honkytonk Man via disqualification Davey Boy Smith (sub. for George Steele) defeated Jake Roberts WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Waukegan, IL – East High School Gym – February 19, 1987 Moondog Spot defeated an unknown (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) Sivi Afi defeated Terry Gibbs The Assassin fought Jerry Allen to a draw Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo & Johnny V King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim via count-out Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis via disqualificationWWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – February 20, 1987 (8,420) Tama defeated Moondog Spot Hillbilly Jim defeated Terry Gibbs Sivi Afi defeated Danny Spivey Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Jerry Allen Koko B. Ware defeated Steve Lombardi Ron Bass defeated SD Jones Haku defeated Nikolai Volkoff Blackjack Mulligan defeated the Iron Sheik in under 1 minute The Iron Sheik won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Kamala, Nikolai Volkoff, the Iron Sheik, Koko B. Ware, the Islanders, Danny Spivey, Hillbilly Jim, Blackjack Mulligan, Ron Bass, Moondog Spot, Terry Gibbs, Sivi Afi, Iron Mike Sharpe, Jerry Allen, Steve Lombardi, and SD Jones Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis via disqualificationWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – February 20, 1987 Paul Roma defeated the Assassin (Randy Colley) The Honkytonk Man defeated Scott McGhee Butch Reed pinned Pedro Morales Jake Roberts fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-out Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo & Johnny V Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart in a non-title match WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Milwaukee, WI – Mecca – February 21, 1987 (5,710) Rick Martel & Tom Zenk fought Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. to a draw Moondog Spot pinned Scott McGhee Sivi Afi pinned the Assassin Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo & Johnny V Paul Roma defeated Terry Gibbs Pedro Morales pinned Iron Mike Sharpe King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis by disqualificationWWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – February 21, 1987 (21,000) Demolition defeated the Islanders when Ax pinned Tama Jerry Allen pinned Steve Lombardi The Honkytonk Man pinned SD Jones Kamala pinned Cpl. KirchnerSaturday Night’s Main Event #10 – 3/14/87 on NBC (11.6) – included opening comments from WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan, Miss Elizabeth, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart with Jimmy Hart, and Jake Roberts regarding the upcoming matches; featured Animotion’s “Obsession” as the opening theme song; included Vince McMahon & Jesse Ventura on commentary; featured Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his participation in the upcoming 20-man battle royal and facing Andre in the match; included footage from the George Steele vs. WWF IC Champion Randy Savage match at the previous Saturday Night’s Main Event; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Savage & Elizabeth regarding Savage’s upcoming match with Steele and having both his title and manager on the line; after Savage went out to the ring, Okerlund continued to interview Elizabeth, with Steele then appearing; included backstage footage of Hogan preparing for the battle royal and repeating Andre’s name; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Andre & Heenan regarding Andre’s participation in the battle royal, during which Heenan said Andre would eliminate Hogan from the match; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Roberts regarding his upcoming match with King Kong Bundy; featured footage of Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart winning the WWF Tag Team Titles from Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Jimmy Hart, Hart & Neidhart regarding their controversial title win, their upcoming first title defense, and Danny Davis being their official observer at ringside; featured a promo by Ricky Steamboat regarding his upcoming match; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Steamboat regarding his upcoming match against the Iron Sheik; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his upcoming match with Andre at WrestleMania III; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Roddy Piper regarding his upcoming retirement at WrestleMania, with Okerlund then introducing a tribute video to Piper set to Frank Sinatra’s “My Way;” Phil Collins’ “Take Me Home” was the closing theme song: WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Elizabeth) defeated George Steele via count-out at around the 4:30 mark after hitting Steele on the floor with the lifeguard chair Elizabeth sat in for the duration of the contest; pre-match stipulations stated the winner would walk away with Elizabeth as their manager; prior to the contest, Savage attempted to lead Elizabeth from her chair to the backstage area but was cut off by Ricky Steamboat, who blocked Savage’s way; after the contest, Steele hugged a poster of Elizabeth in the ring (Saturday Night’s Main Event: The Greatest Hits) Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) won a 20-man battle royal at 11:16 by last eliminating Billy Jack Haynes after Haynes grabbed for Heenan on the ring apron; other participants included: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Andre the Giant (w/ Bobby Heenan), Ron Bass, B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell, Demolition, the Islanders, Billy Jack Haynes, Hillbilly Jim, the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart), Blackjack Mulligan, Paul Orndorff, Lanny Poffo, Butch Reed, Sika, Nikolai Volkoff, & Koko B. Ware; order of elimination: Honky by Hogan via a bodyslam (0:33); Sika by Andre (0:57); Haku by Andre (1:37); Poffo by Andre after a headbutt (1:49); after his elimination, Poffo – who was busted open by Andre and bled profusely – was taken backstage on a stretcher; Bass by Hogan via a backdrop (3:41); Mulligan by Andre via a hiptoss (3:47); Volkoff by Hogan (4:05); Blair by Andre after a series of headbutts (4:24); Orndorff by Hogan via a bodyslam (5:59); Hogan by Andre after a headbutt from behind (6:09); Brunzell by Andre (7:36); Andre by Jim, Haynes, Demolition, Reed, Koko, Tama, & Hercules (8:08); Tama by Hercules (8:17); Ax by Jim (8:21); Jim by Smash & Hercules (8:39); Reed by Koko via a dropkick from behind (9:07); Koko by Hercules (10:03); Smash by Haynes via a clothesline (10:55); after the match, Gene Okerlund conducted a backstage interview with Andre, and later Heenan, about eliminating Hogan and it having to take eight men to eliminate him (WrestleMania III Championship Edition, Best of Saturday Night’s Main Event)Prime Time Wrestling – 3/30/87: King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jake Roberts via disqualification at 6:14 after Roberts kneed the referee when the ref attempted to prevent Roberts from grabbing the bag that contained Damien; after the bout, Heenan – who had been chased from ringside earlier – returned to help Bundy out of the ring after recieving the DDT (Jake “The Snake” Roberts) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Tito Santana & Danny Spivey (sub. for Mike Rotundo) at 5:31 when Bret pinned Santana after Davis hit Santana with Jimmy’s megaphone behind the referee’s back as Santana had Bret caught in the figure-4 Ricky Steamboat pinned the Iron Sheik (w/ Slick) at 3:29 with a bodyslam and karate chop off the top; prior to the bout, WWF IC Champion Randy Savage appeared and confronted Steamboat on the ring apron before he was forced from ringside and joined the commentary team; after the contest, Savage challenged Steamboat to come out to the commentary table; Steamboat tried to get at Savage but was held back by refereesWWF @ LaCrosse, WI – LaCrosse Center – February 22, 1987 (matinee) Moondog Spot vs. Scott McGhee Sivi Afi vs. the Assassin Paul Roma vs. Terry Gibbs Pedro Morales vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo & Johnny V Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Paul Orndorff vs. Koko B. Ware King Harley Race vs. the Junkyard DogWWF @ Flint, MI – IMA Sports Arena – February 22, 1987 Included the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Battle Creek, MI – Kellogg Center Arena – February 22, 1987 Lanny Poffo pinned the Raider Ron Bass pinned Jerry Allen with a flying back elbow Jake Roberts fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-out when both men were brawling on the floor; after the bout, Bundy continued to attack Jake until Jake was able to let Damien loose from the snake bag to scare Bundy away from ringside Demolition defeated the Islanders Billy Jack Haynes defeated Hercules via disqualification when Herc hit the referee B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart & Danny Davis (sub. for WWF Tag Team Champion Jim Neidhart) when Hart was pinnedWWF @ Pittsfield, MA – Boys Club – February 23, 1987 (1,200) Tom Magee defeated the Red Demon via submission Hercules won a 12-man battle royal by last eliminating Danny Spivey; other participants included, in order of elimination: Brutus Beefcake, Dave Barbie, the Red Demon, Jerry Allen, Billy Jack Haynes, Tom Magee, Brad Rheingans, Frenchy Martin, SD Jones, & Greg Valentine Brad Rheingans pinned Dave Barbie SD Jones pinned Frenchy Martin Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake defeated Danny Spivey & Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) Billy Jack Haynes defeated Hercules via disqualificationWWF @ Madison, WI – Dane County Coliseum – February 23, 1987 Included a 20-man bunkhouse battle royal including Paul Orndorff, Blackjack Mulligan, Hillbilly Jim, Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., Jim Duggan, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Dino Bravo, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Lanny Poffo, Sika, Johnny V, Sivi Afi, Iron Mike Sharpe, Moondog Spot, Scott McGhee, Terry Gibbs, and the Assassin B. Brian Blair vs. Nikolai Volkoff Hillbilly Jim vs. Jim Brunzell Blackjack Mulligan vs. King Kong Bundy Included 3 other matchesWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – February 23, 1987 (18,317)Televised on the MSG Network – featured Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 3/9/87: Paul Roma pinned Salvatore Bellomo at 12:23 with a powerslamPrime Time Wrestling – 4/6/87: Demolition defeated the Islanders at 9:13 when Ax pinned Tama following the Decapitation behind the referee’s back after Smash hit a clothesline on Tama (Barry Darsow’s MSG debut) (Best of the WWF Vol. 13)Prime Time Wrestling – 3/9/87: Koko B. Ware pinned Sika at 4:51 with a roll up following a dropkick to the back after sliding under the ring and coming out the other end; after the bout, Sika attacked Koko and threw him out of the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 3/9/87: Tito Santana fought Butch Reed (w/ Slick) to a double disqualification at 12:10 when, as Slick attempted to interfere with his cane, Koko B. Ware came out and knocked Slick out of the ring; after the bout, Santana and Koko cleared the ring WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 13:52 when Bret reversed a slam by Brunzell into a small package after Davis attacked Brunzell from behind; during the match, Jimmy Hart briefly joined the commentary team at ringside (The Hart Foundation)Prime Time Wrestling – 3/9/87: Outback Jack pinned Barry O with a bulldog at 3:33 (Jack’s MSG debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 3/9/87: Jake Roberts defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out at 9:17 when Bundy pushed Roberts back inside the ring following a ringside brawl; after the bout, Bundy missed the Avalanche in the corner with Roberts then chasing Bundy, Heenan, and Jimmy Hart – who did guest commentary for the bout – backstage with Damien (Jake “The Snake” Roberts)Prime Time Wrestling – 3/9/87: The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Pedro Morales at 11:58 with his feet on the ropes; Slick did guest commentary for the bout, subbing for Bobby Heenan Roddy Piper, the Junkyard Dog, & Ricky Steamboat defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, Adrian Adonis, & King Harley Race in an elimination match at 20:22 when Piper pinned Savage with an inside cradle after Savage missed his flying elbowdrop; Adonis and JYD fought to a double count-out at 7:50; Race pinned Steamboat at 11:42 after Savage interfered behind the referee’s back and reversed Steamboat’s inside cradle; Piper pinned Race at 15:43 after Savage accidentally hit his partner with a double axe handle; prior to the bout, Jimmy Hart, Miss Elizabeth, and Bobby Heenan left ringside; after the bout, Gorilla Monsoon interviewed Piper backstage (Piper’s last appearance at MSG for 2 1/2 years) (Best of the WWF Vol. 11, WWE’s Top 50 Superstars of All Time)WWF @ Davenport, IA – Palmer Auditorium – February 24, 1987 (2,200) Dino Bravo defeated Scott McGhee Lanny Poffo defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Raymond Rougeau defeated Stoney Burke Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Jim Duggan defeated the Assassin Hillbilly Jim (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) defeated Paul Orndorff Sivi Afi defeated Terry Gibbs Jacques Rougeau defeated Johnny V Hillbilly Jim won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Dino Bravo, Scott McGhee, Lanny Poffo, Stoney Burke, Iron Mike Sharpe, Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., Rick Martel, Johnny V, Moondog Spot, Tom Zenk, Jim Duggan, the Assassin, Paul Orndorff, Sivi Afi, Terry Gibbs, and Mr. FujiWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – February 24, 1987 Included Blackjack Mulligan and HerculesWWF @ Staten Island, NY – Susan B. Wagner High School Gym – February 24, 1987The show was advertised as the 11th anniversary of local promoter Tommy Dee Brad Rheingens defeated Dave Barbie Salvatore Bellomo defeated Jerry Allen Tom Magee defeated the Red Demon Koko B. Ware defeated Frenchy Martin Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair defeated Brutus Beefcake & Greg Valentine Jake Roberts defeated Butch ReedWWF @ Stroudsburg, PA – High School Gym – February 25, 1987 Included Butch Reed, Tito Santana, Greg Valentine, & Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – February 25, 1987 (8,000) Cpl. Kirchner defeated Tiger Chung Lee Koko B. Ware defeated Steve Lombardi Kamala defeated Lanny Poffo Bob Orton Jr. pinned Pedro Morales The Junkyard Dog pinned Jake Roberts Blackjack Mulligan pinned King Kong Bundy in a bullrope match after hitting him in the head with his boot WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned George Steele by hitting him with a foreign object after Steele became distracted by Miss Elizabeth outside the ring Billy Jack Haynes defeated Hercules via disqualification after Hercules accidentally struck the refereeWWF @ Des Moines, IA – Veterans Auditorium – February 25, 1987 $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal involving Hillbilly Jim, Bob Orton Jr., Paul Orndorff, Don Muraco, the Junkyard Dog, Dino Bravo, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Rick Martel, Johnny V, Tom Zenk, Iron Mike Sharpe, Mike Gibbs, the Assassin, Jim Duggan, Moondog Spot, Sivi Afi, Mr. Fuji, Lanny Poffo, & Scott McGhee Also involved 6 other matchesWWF @ Hazleton, PA – St. Joseph’s Gym – February 26, 1987 Salvatore Bellomo vs. Jerry Allen Dave Barbie vs. Brad Rheingans Tom Magee vs. Frenchy Martin Koko B. Ware vs. the Red Demon B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Butch Reed vs. Tito Santana $10,000 14-man battle royal with participants: Salvatore Bellomo, Jerry Allen, Dave Barbie, Brad Rheingans, Tom Magee, Frenchy Martin, Koko B. Ware, the Red Demon, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, Butch Reed & Tito SantanaWWF @ Lafayette, LA – Cajun Dome – February 26, 1987 Jake Roberts, Jim Duggan, & the Junkyard Dog vs. Paul Orndorff, King Harley Race, & Bobby HeenanWWF @ Rochester, NY – War Memorial – February 26, 1987 (2,200) Paul Roma pinned Tiger Chung Lee Outback Jack pinned Barry O Pedro Morales pinned Sika The Honkytonk Man defeated SD Jones Demolition defeated Dan Spivey & Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated George Steele Billy Jack Haynes & Blackjack Mulligan defeated King Kong Bundy & Hercules via disqualificationWWF @ New Orleans, LA – UNO Lakefront Arena – February 27, 1987 Ricky Steamboat vs. Paul Orndorff George Steele vs. WWF IC Champion Randy Savage The Junkyard Dog, Jake Roberts, & Jim Duggan vs. King Kong Bundy, King Harley Race, & Bobby HeenanWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – February 27, 1987 (19,320) SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Outback Jack defeated Barry O Sika defeated Pedro Morales Rick Martel defeated the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification when Hart interfered Blackjack Mulligan defeated Nikolai Volkoff Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Jerry Allen & (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Danny Spivey Dino Bravo defeated Tom Zenk Hercules fought Billy Jack Haynes to a no contest WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Freehold, NJ – High School Gym – February 27, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. Salvatore Bellomo Tom Magee vs. the Red Demon Brad Rheingans vs. Dave Barbie Koko B. Ware vs. Frenchy Martin B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Tito Santana vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Winnipeg, Manitoba – Arena – February 28, 1987 (13,000) SD Jones pinned Tiger Chung Lee Demolition defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Danny Spivey Blackjack Mulligan pinned Sika The Honkytonk Man pinned Pedro Morales Outback Jack pinned Barry O Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Jake Roberts with the legdropWWF @ Frederick, MD – Community College Fieldhouse – February 28, 1987 (2,536 paid) Tom Magee defeated Frenchy Martin Jim Powers defeated Salvatore Bellomo Brad Rheingans defeated Dave Barbie Koko B. Ware defeated the Red Demon B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Tito Santana defeated Butch ReedWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – February 28, 1987 (3,800) The Assassin (Randy Colley) pinned Lanny Poffo Sivi Afi pinned Moondog Spot Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Jim Duggan pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Bob Orton Jr. pinned Dick Slater Kamala pinned King Kong Bundy after the 5-minute mark Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a double count-out Roddy Piper, Ricky Steamboat, & the Junkyard Dog defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Harley Race, & Adrian Adonis in an elimination match; JYD and Adonis fought to a double count-out; Race pinned Steamboat; Piper pinned Race; Piper pinned SavageWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – March 1, 1987 Paul Roma defeated Tiger Chung Lee The Honkytonk Man defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) Steve Lombardi defeated Sivi Afi Danny Spivey defeated Demolition in a handicap match; the bout was originally scheduled as Spivey & Mike Rotundo vs. Demolition Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double count-out WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & Paul Orndorff defeated Ricky Steamboat & George SteeleWWF @ Vineland, NJ – High School Gym – March 1, 1987 Salvatore Bellomo vs. Jim Powers Tom Magee vs. the Red Demon Brad Rheingans vs. Dave Barbie Koko B. Ware vs. Frenchy Martin Brutus Beefcake & Greg Valentine vs. the Islanders Tito Santana vs. Butch ReedWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – March 1, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Barry O King Kong Bundy vs. Dick Slater Blackjack Mulligan vs. Sika Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Roddy Piper & the Junkyard Dog vs. Adrian Adonis & King Harley Race WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan (w/ Billy Jack Haynes) vs. Hercules (w/ Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan) (chain match)WWF @ Peoria, IL – Civic Center – March 2, 1987 Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated SD Jones & Sivi Afi when Orton pinned Jones Sika pinned Moondog Spot Outback Jack defeated Tiger Chung Lee Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double count-out Roddy Piper & the Junkyard Dog defeated Adrian Adonis & King Harley RaceWWF @ Salisbury, MD – Wicomico Youth & Civic Center – March 2, 1987 Barry O vs. Tom Magee Cpl. Kirchner vs. the Red Demon Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed The Islanders vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik George Steele vs. WWF IC Champion Randy SavageWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – March 2, 1987 Lanny Poffo defeated Frenchy Martin Jim Duggan defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Ron Bass defeated Dick Slater Koko B. Ware defeated the Honkytonk Man Brad Rheingans defeated Salvatore Bellomo Billy Jack Haynes defeated the Gladiator (sub. for Paul Orndorff) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan (w/ Billy Jack Haynes) defeated Hercules (w/ Andre the Giant) in a non-title matchWWF @ Rockford, IL – Metro Centre – March 3, 1987 Sika pinned Moondog Spot at 9:50 after a diving headbutt Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi at 15:08 with a sunset flip off the top Outback Jack pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 6:40 after two clotheslines The Islanders fought Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. to a 20-minute time-limit draw Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double count-out at 7:35 The Crusher defeated Bobby Heenan via count-out at 3:38 after Heenan was hit with the Bolo punch WWF IC Champion Randy Savage pinned George Steele at 3:30 after using a foreign objectWWF @ Wildwood, NJ – Convention Hall – March 3, 1987WWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – March 3, 1987 (1,400) Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin Koko B. Ware fought the Honkytonk Man to a 20-minute time-limit draw Jim Duggan pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Ron Bass pinned Billy Anderson Billy Jack Haynes defeated Ron Bass (sub. for Adrian Adonis) Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond RougeauWWF @ Poughkeepsie, NY – Mid-Hudson Civic Center – March 4, 1987Postponed from 1/22/87 WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre George Steele vs. WWF IC Champion Randy Savage Also included Nikolai Volkoff, the Iron Sheik, Hillbilly Jim, Dick Slater, Cpl. Kirchner, Sivi Afi, Jimmy Jack Funk, and the Red DemonWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – March 4, 1987 (2,000) Ron Bass pinned SD Jones Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin Koko B. Ware pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Jim Duggan pinned Jack Armstrong Billy Jack Haynes defeated the Honkytonk Man via disqualification Roddy Piper & Tito Santana defeated Adrian Adonis & Butch Reed WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond RougeauWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – March 4, 1987 Moondog Spot vs. Sika Paul Roma vs. Steve Lombardi Outback Jack vs. Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. vs. the Islanders Jake Roberts vs. Kamala WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. King Kong Bundy & Bobby Heenan (handicap match)WWF @ Augusta, GA – Civic Center – March 5, 1987WWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – March 5, 1987 (6,000) WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Jeanne Kirkland (sub. for Velvet McIntyre) WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated George Steele via disqualification Hillbilly Jim won a 16-man bunkhouse battle royal at around the 5-minute mark; other participants included: Mr. Fuji, the Islanders, Outback Jack, Salvatore Bellomo, Don Muraco, Jimmy Jack Funk, the Red Demon, Dave Barbie, Pedro Morales, Tom Magee, King Kong Bundy, Barry O, Cpl. Kirchner, & Bob Orton Jr.WWF @ Albuquerque, NM – Tingley Coliseum – March 5, 1987 (2,267) Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin Ron Bass pinned SD Jones Jim Duggan vs. ? Koko B. Ware pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Roddy Piper & Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed & Adrian Adonis when Piper pinned Reed Billy Jack Haynes fought the Honkytonk Man to a draw WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau after Danny Davis interfered and reversed a small package attempt behind the referee’s backWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – March 6, 1987 (5,520) Cpl. Kirchner defeated Barry O Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Outback Jack defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Pedro Morales defeated Moondog Spot Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated the Islanders Billy Jack Haynes defeated Kamala Paul Orndorff pinned Koko B. Ware WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & the Honkytonk Man defeated Ricky Steamboat & George Steele via disqualificationWWF @ Tulsa, OK – Expo Square – March 6, 1987 Tom Magee defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Ron Bass defeated SD Jones Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim Roddy Piper & Jake Roberts (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) defeated King Harley Race & Adrian Adonis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jake Roberts & Jim Duggan via disqualificationWWF @ Birmingham, AL – Boutwell Auditorium – March 6, 1987 (12,000) WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Jeanne Kirkland (sub. for Velvet McIntyre) B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Blackjack Mulligan pinned Nikolai Volkoff Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Hercules & Bobby Heenan in a handicap matchWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – March 7, 1987 (14,000)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan on commentary, with Jimmy Hart filling in for Heenan during the first two matches; featured a “Flashback” match showing the Pete Doherty / Mario Mancini match from the 5/18/85 Boston Garden event:Prime Time Wrestling – 3/16/87: Pedro Morales pinned Jimmy Jack Funk with a backbreaker at 7:26Prime Time Wrestling – 3/16/87: Jim Duggan pinned Moondog Spot with the running clothesline at 6:22Prime Time Wrestling – 3/16/87: Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Dan Spivey & Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) at 11:46 when Orton pinned Allen with the superplex; during the bout, Fuji briefly joined the commentary team; after the contest, Allen was triple teamed until Spivey made the savePrime Time Wrestling – 3/16/87: Ron Bass pinned SD Jones with a flying back elbow at 10:59Prime Time Wrestling – 4/13/87: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau at 14:50 when Bret pinned Jacques with a small package after Davis interfered and reversed the move behind the referee’s back; during the bout, Davis briefly joined the commentary team (Allied Powers) Outback Jack pinned Jimmy Jack Funk (sub. for Barry O) at the 58-second mark with a bulldogPrime Time Wrestling – 4/20/87: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Roddy Piper, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart), Paul Orndorff, & Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) in an elimination match at 18:04; Piper and Adonis fought to a double count-out at 11:25; Hogan pinned Orndorff with a roll up at 15:26; after the fall, Orndorff attacked Hogan; Hercules pinned Haynes with a clothesline out of the corner at 16:23; Hogan pinned Hercules with the leg dropWWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – March 7, 1987 (3,318) WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre King Kong Bundy vs. Hillbilly Jim Also included the Junkyard Dog, King Harley Race, Butch Reed, Cpl. Kirchner, Tito Santana & the Iron SheikWWF @ Huntsville, AL – Von Braun Civic Center – March 7, 1987 (9,000; sell out) Brad Rheingans vs. the Assassin Sika vs. Sivi Afi Paul Roma vs. Steve Lombardi Kamala vs. Jake Roberts Blackjack Mulligan (sub. for Dick Slater) defeated Nikolai Volkoff B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake WWF IC Champion Randy Savage & the Honkytonk Man defeated Ricky Steamboat & George SteeleWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – March 8, 1987 (5,000)Included Danny Davis as a guest of Jake Roberts’ Snake PitTag Team Tournament Quarter Finals: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated King Kong Bundy & Paul Orndorff via count-out Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Demolition via disqualification after Demolition used Mr. Fuji’s cane as a weapon Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification at around the 30-second mark after Smith hit Valentine with a chair Rick Martel & Tom Zenk (sub. for the Islanders) defeated Dan Spivey & Pedro Morales (sub. for Mike Rotundo)Semi-Finals: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. when Muraco accidentally hit Orton with Mr. Fuji’s cane after Valentine moved out of the wayFinals: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake; due to pre-match stipulations, Martel & Zenk earned a tag team title shot WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Rick Martel & Tom Zenk after Danny Davis interfered and reversed a small package attempt behind the referee’s backWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – March 8, 1987 (4,000) Brad Rheingans defeated Ron Bass via disqualification Sivi Afi defeated Moondog Spot Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Dick Slater pinned Sika The Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele via disqualification Billy Jack Haynes fought Kamala to a double count-out Roddy Piper, Ricky Steamboat, & the Junkyard Dog defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Harley Race, & Adrian Adonis in an elimination match; Adonis fought JYD to a double count-out; Race pinned Steamboat; Piper pinned Race; Piper pinned SavageWWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Civic Center – March 8, 1987 (5,617) Tom Magee vs. Frenchy Martin Cpl. Kirchner vs. Tiger Chung Lee Blackjack Mulligan vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Outback Jack (sub. for Dick Slater) pinned the Assassin (Randy Colley) Hercules pinned Hillbilly Jim The Islanders defeated the Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed via disqualificationWWF @ Louisville, KY – Louisville Gardens – March 9, 1987 Hercules, Butch Reed, & King Harley Race vs. the Junkyard Dog, Billy Jack Haynes, & Tito Santana (elimination match) Also included Blackjack Mulligan, Demolition & Nikolai VolkoffWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – March 9, 1987 (8,600) Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi Sika defeated Moondog Spot Kamala defeated King Kong Bundy The Islanders fought Jacques & Raymond Rougeau to a double disqualification Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Ricky Steamboat fought the Honkytonk Man to a draw WWF IC Champion Randy Savage defeated George Steele; pre-match stipulations stated the winner would walk away with Elizabeth as their managerWWF @ Lexington, KY – Rupp Arena – March 9, 1987 (3,500) Sivi Afi pinned Tiger Chung Lee B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. when Muraco was pinned after the Bees switched places following a mask switch Hillbilly Jim pinned Jimmy Jack Funk The Iron Sheik pinned Cpl. Kirchner with his feet on the ropes Adrian Adonis pinned Dick Slater Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart) defeated Koko B. Ware (w/ Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid) via count-out when Koko left the ring to back up the Bulldogs when the Harts threatened to interfere in the match WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification when Dynamite threw a chair into the ring when the Harts were double-teaming Smith Roddy Piper pinned Paul Orndorff with a small packageWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – March 10, 1987 (8,000; sell out)WWF Superstars taping: The Junkyard Dog & SD Jones defeated Dave Wagner & Brian Costello The Assassin defeated Paul Roma Jim Duggan pinned Nikolai Volkoff WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Paul OrndorffPrime Time Wrestling – 3/30/87: Blackjack Mulligan & Dan Spivey defeated Salvatore Bellomo & Tiger Chung Lee at 3:55 when Mulligan pinned Lee with a flying back elbowPrime Time Wrestling – 4/6/87: The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Koko B. Ware at 10:45 when Hart grabbed Koko’s leg as he attempted a suplex into the ring, with Honky falling on top for the win3/21/87 – included Bobby Heenan, Andre the Giant, & WWF President Jack Tunney as guests of the Piper’s Pit in which a new and larger world championship belt was revealed that would be given to the winner of the Hogan / Andre match at WrestleMania III: Jim Duggan fought the Iron Sheik (w/ Slick & Nikolai Volkoff) to a no contest after Duggan cleared the ring with his 2×4 before the match began, after Duggan interrupted Volkoff’s singing of teh Russian National Anthem; after the bout, Duggan grabbed the mic and vowed to never again let Volkoff sing the anthem Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Cpl. Kirchner & Mario Mancini at 1:47 when Muraco pinned Mancini; during the bout, Lanny Poffo joined the commentary team to read a poem he wrote about WrestleMania III Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jim Young via submission with the sleeper at 1:48 Tito Santana, Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid defeated Steve Lombardi, Al Navarro, & Rick Renslow at 2:48 when Tito pinned Navarro with the flying forearm; Dynamite was never tagged into the match to cover for the fact he was still too injured to compete The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Lanny Poffo at the 38-second mark with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll3/28/87 – included the final edition of the Piper’s Pit prior to Piper’s retirement match at WrestleMania III; featured an opening promo by Andre the Giant, Bobby Heenan, and Bob Ueker in which Andre & Heenan forced Uecker to announce Andre as the new world heavyweight champion in preperation for WrestleMania III; included an ‘Update’ segment focusing on the Steamboat / Savage IC title match at WrestleMania III; featured a promo by Jake Roberts and Alice Cooper about Jake’s match with the Honkytonk Man at WrestleMania III; included comments from Slick and the Iron Sheik who challenged Jim Duggan to face Sheik the following week, with Duggan then accepting the challenge; featured a WrestleMania III report showing promos by Jimmy Hart with Mary Hart and Bobby Heenan with Aretha Franklin; included a promo by Mary Hart & Bob Uecker preparing for WrestleMania III with Uecker unable to find his tickets for the show: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Steve Lombardi & Johnny K-9 at 3:14 when Martel pinned K-9 with a slingshot splash Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Jim Powers at 2:30 with a clothesline off the middle turnbuckle WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Joe Mirto & Rick Hunter at 2:35 when Bret pinned Mirto following the Hart Attack Jake Roberts pinned Moondog Spot with the DDT at 1:51 King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Jerry Allen at 1:04 with the cradle suplex4/4/87 – included an ‘Update’ segment where the Wizard announced that Mr. Fuji was the new manager of Kamala & Sika; featured a post-WrestleMania III Report announcing all the results of the event; included the first ‘Ken Patera Story’ to hype Patera’s return, showing his previous accomplishments in weightlifting: Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik (w/ Slick) via disqualification at 2:57 when Nikolai Volkoff interfered, broke Slick’s cane over Duggan’s head – busting him open – and then helped in triple teaming Duggan until Sivi Afi and the Killer Bees made the save B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Jimmy Jack Funk & Iron Mike Sharpe at 2:55 when Blair pinned Sharpe following a dropkick from Brunzell Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick & the Iron Sheik) fought Rick Hunter to a no contest when Hunter attacked Volkoff as he was about to sing the Russian National Anthem but was then triple teamed until Jim Duggan made the save and chased the heels away with his 2×4 Jake Roberts pinned the Raider at 2:41 with the DDT Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Sivi Afi & Brad Rheingans at 1:34 when Ax pinned Afi following the Decapitation King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Don Driggers at 1:16 with the cradle suplexWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – March 11, 1987 (8,000; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping: The Shadow (Randy Colley) defeated SD Jones Tom Magee defeated Barry O Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers; the match was redone after the finish was botched WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) at around the 5-minute markPrime Time Wrestling – 3/16/87: WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated Velvet McIntyre & Angie Minelli at 9:37 when Kai pinned Minelli after a powerbomb from MartinWrestling Spotlight – 3/21/87: Hillbilly Jim defeated Brian Costello via submission with the bearhug at 1:40Wrestling Spotlight – 4/4/87: Outback Jack pinned the Raider with a bulldog at 1:303/22/87 – included WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan as a guest of the Snake Pit: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers in a non-title match when Bret pinned Powers with the Hart Attack; after the bout, the champions and Davis continued to attack their opposition Koko B. Ware pinned Johnny K-9 with the Ghost Buster King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Mario Mancini with a splash; after the bout, Mancini was taken out on a stretcher Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Terry Gibbs & Iron Mike Sharpe when Martel pinned Gibbs with a slingshot splash into the ring Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jim Young via submission with the full nelson3/29/87 – included Jake Roberts as his own guest of the Snake Pit: Tito Santana (w/ Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid) fought Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V, Brutus Beefcake, & Dino Bravo) to a double disqualification when all the participants began brawling at ringside; replays of the brawl showed that Brutus Beefcake had little to do with the incident – showing dissention in the Dream Team King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Rick Hunter with a cradle suplex; after the bout, Race further beat down on Hunter when he failed to bow properly Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dave Wagner & Rick Renslow Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Cpl. Kirchner with a splash off the top Ricky Steamboat pinned Jimmy Jack Funk with a karate chop off the top; after the bout, George Steele celebrated the win alongside Steamboat and several children4/5/87 – included Blackjack Mulligan as a guest of the Snake Pit: The Islanders defeated Al Navarro & Iron Mike Sharpe when Tama pinned Navarro with a splash off the top The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Sivi Afi with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Billy Jack Haynes defeated the Gladiator via submission with the full nelson Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) pinned Sam Cody with a splash off the top; after the bout, Cody was taken out on a stretcher (Fuji’s first match managing Kamala after being given his contract by the Wizard) Ron Bass pinned Joe Mirto with an elbow drop Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V & Dino Bravo) defeated Jerry Allen via submission with the figure-4WWF @ Struthers, OH – Fieldhouse – March 12, 1987 (1,900) Tom Magee pinned Terry Gibbs Cpl. Kirchner pinned Tiger Chung Lee Dino Bravo pinned Pedro Morales The Islanders defeated the Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis via disqualification after Jimmy Hart interfered WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in under 3 minutes when Bret pinned Smith after Danny Davis interfered behind the referee’s backWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – March 12, 1987 George Steele vs. the Honkytonk Man Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Jake Roberts vs. Kamala Roddy Piper (w/ the Junkyard Dog) vs. King Harley Race (w/ Adrian Adonis) Also included 3 other matchesWWF @ Syracuse, NY – War Memorial – March 12, 1987 (1,800) Jim Powers fought Frenchy Martin to a draw Dick Slater defeated the Assassin (Randy Colley) King Kong Bundy fought Blackjack Mulligan to a double count-out Ron Bass defeated Sivi Afi Demolition defeated Dan Spivey & Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Kong Bundy, & Hercules in an elimination match; Santana was the sole survivor of the boutWWF @ Shippensburg, PA – Heiges Field House – March 13, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Cpl. Kirchner vs. Tiger Chung Lee Pedro Morales vs. Dino Bravo The Islanders vs. Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – March 13, 1987 (1,800) Jim Powers fought Frenchy Martin to a draw Ron Bass defeated Sivi Afi Blackjack Mulligan defeated King Kong Bundy Demolition defeated Dan Spivey & Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) Dick Slater defeated the Assassin (Randy Colley) Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, Hercules, & Butch Reed in an elimination matchWWF @ Worcester, MA – Centrum – March 13, 1987 Paul Roma fought Steve Lombardi to a draw Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a no contest SD Jones defeated Dave Barbie Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Outback Jack defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Roddy Piper defeated King Harley Race The Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele via disqualificationWWF @ Berwick, PA – High School Gym – March 14, 1987 (matinee) (1,389) Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs via submission at 8:02 with a backbreaker Pedro Morales pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 8:15 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via pinfall at 5:30 Cpl. Kirchner pinned the Iron Sheik; the match originally went to a 20-minute time-limit draw but Sheik asked for the match to continue Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis via disqualification at 11:15WWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – March 14, 1987Included Andre the Giant as a guest of the Snake Pit Jose Luis Rivera defeated ? The Assassin defeated Sivi Afi Ron Bass defeated Jim Powers (sub. for Jerry Allen) Demolition defeated Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Danny Spivey The Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele via disqualification Jake Roberts fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-out Ricky Steamboat, Koko B. Ware (sub. for the Junkyard Dog), & Billy Jack Haynes defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Harley Race, & Hercules in an elimination match; Haynes & Hercules fought to a double count-out; Steamboat pinned Race; Ware pinned SavageWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – March 14, 1987 (16,943)Televised on the PRISM Network – featured Dick Graham & Ken Resnick on commentary (Resnick’s last appearance as an announcer); included Danny Davis as a guest of Piper’s Pit in which Davis said he had always been a fair referee; moments later, Roddy Piper brought out referee Joey Marella who told Davis he sucked; Davis then brought out his own guest – Adrian Adonis, with Jimmy Hart; Piper then began choking Davis and backdropped Adonis over the top to the floor; Adonis was then dragged out of the arena by Gorilla Monsoon and other officials as Piper punched out Davis, saying that’s how he wanted to leave Philadelphia:Prime Time Wrestling – 5/11/87: Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi at 9:53 with a sunset flip off the topPrime Time Wrestling – 5/4/87: Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Dick Slater at 8:17 with his feet on the ropesPrime Time Wrestling – 5/4/87: Outback Jack pinned Frenchy Martin with a bulldog at 4:58Prime Time Wrestling – 5/4/87: Dino Bravo pinned SD Jones at 3:02 with the side suplex WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated the Islanders at 18:22 when Bret pinned Tama after Davis interfered and reversed Tama’s small package attempt behind the referee’s back (Bret Hitman Hart: The Dungeon Collection) Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification at 11:39 when Valentine dropped Zenk crotch-first onto the top rope Rick Martel fought Brutus Beefcake to a double count-out at 15:35 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Roddy Piper defeated Kamala (w/ the Wizard & Kimchee) & Paul Orndorff at 8:53 when Hogan pinned Orndorff after Kamala accidentally hit Orndorff when Hogan moved out of the wayWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – March 15, 1987 (18,000; sell out)Frank Tunney Sr. Memorial Tag Team Tournament – included Gorilla Monsoon, Johnny V, & Jimmy Hart on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 3/30/87: Sivi Afi pinned the Red Demon (Jose Luis Rivera) at 4:45 with a flying bodypressPrime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: Hillbilly Jim defeated Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) via disqualification at 5:35 after Bravo accidentally punched the referee when Hillbilly moved out of the wayQuarter-Finals: Prime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Kamala & Sika (w/ Kimchee) at 7:32 when Brunzell pinned Sika following a dropkickQuarter-Finals: International Wrestling Challenge: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Danny Spivey at 10:31 when Zenk pinned Allen with a crossbodyQuarter-Finals: Prime Time Wrestling – 3/30/87: Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification at 4:50 when Smith used a steel chair as a weapon after Johnny V tripped Smith from the apron and Dynamite threw the chair in the ringQuarter-Finals: Prime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: Paul Orndorff & King Kong Bundy defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 6:20 when Orndorff pinned Orton after Muraco accidentally hit his partner with Fuji’s caneSemi Finals: Prime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Rick Martel & Tom Zenk via count-out at 9:21 after Ax shoved Zenk into the ring-postSemi Finals: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Paul Orndorff & King Kong Bundy at 4:22 when Blair pinned Orndorff with a reverse roll up after the Killer Bees used their masks to switch places in the ringFinals: Prime Time Wrestling – 4/13/87: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Demolition (w/ Johnny V) at 6:16 when Blair pinned Ax with a sunset flip off the top after the Killer Bees put on their masks to switch places in the ring; due to pre-match stipulations, the Killer Bees earned an immediate tag team title shot WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell when Bret pinned Blair after Danny Davis interfered and reversed Blair’s small package attempt behind the referee’s back; after the bout, the Bees attacked Davis and threw him out of the ringWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – March 15, 1987 Greg Valentine defeated Haku Ron Bass defeated SD Jones Dick Slater defeated the Assassin Jake Roberts defeated the Iron Sheik Tama fought Brutus Beefcake to a draw The Honkytonk Man defeated Koko B. Ware Roddy Piper, Ricky Steamboat, & George Steele (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Harley Race, & Adrian Adonis in an elimination matchWWF @ Sussex, NJ – March 15, 1987WWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – March 16, 1987 (4,500)Featured Gorilla Monsoon, Johnny V, & Jimmy Hart on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: SD Jones pinned the Red Demon with a sunset flip Sika defeated Frankie LanePrime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: Sivi Afi pinned Ivan MacDonald at 5:55 with a diving headbuttPrime Time Wrestling – 3/23/87: Jose Luis Rivera pinned Johnny K-9 at 5:23 with a dropkick from the middle turnbuckleInternational Wrestling Challenge: Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs via submission with a backbreaker at 5:14Prime Time Wrestling – 3/30/87: Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo at 14:09 with a flying back elbowPrime Time Wrestling – 3/30/87: Demolition (w/ Johnny V) defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Dan Spivey at 10:48 when Ax pinned Allen with a clotheslinePrime Time Wrestling – 4/13/87: Koko B. Ware fought Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) to a time-limit draw at 16:58 Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) via disqualification at 6:19 when Davis interfered jumping from the top rope on to SmithWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – March 16, 1987 (4,400)Included a live Piper’s Pit segment; “Entertainment Tonight” correspondant Paula McClure was in attendance to film clips of the matches and backstage interviews for a segment which aired days before WrestleMania III Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Jacques Rougeau defeated Bob Orton Jr. via disqualification Blackjack Mulligan defeated Nikolai Volkoff The Iron Sheik defeated Nick Kiniski Raymond Rougeau fought Don Muraco to a draw Hercules defeated Dick Slater Roddy Piper, Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana, & Blackjack Mulligan (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Harley Race, Adrian Adonis, & Butch Reed in an elimination match (Piper’s farewell show in Los Angeles before his retirement)WWF @ Denver, CO – McNichols Arena – March 16, 1987 (3,362) Jim Duggan defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification Rick Martel fought Brutus Beefcake to a time-limit draw King Kong Bundy defeated Billy Jack Haynes via count-out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & the Crusher (w/ Jake Roberts dressed as Kimchee) defeated the Honkytonk Man & Kamala when Hogan pinned KamalaWWF @ Waterloo, IA – McElroy Auditorium – March 17, 1987 Jim Duggan vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Dick Slater vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Brad Rheingans vs. Dino Bravo Tom Zenk vs. Brutus Beefcake Rick Martel vs. Greg Valentine Roddy Piper, the Junkyard Dog, & Jake Roberts vs. Adrian Adonis, King Harley Race, & the Honkytonk ManWWF @ San Francisco, CA – Cow Palace – March 17, 1987 Blackjack Mulligan defeated the Iron Sheik Paul Roma defeated Frenchy Martin Nick Kiniski defeated Steve Lombardi Bob Orton Jr. defeated Raymond Rougeau Jacques Rougeau fought Don Muraco to a draw Kamala fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-out Nikolai Volkoff defeated Outback Jack WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, Hercules, & Butch Reed defeated Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana, & Billy Jack Haynes in an elimination matchWWF @ Newmarket, Ontario – Recreational Complex – March 17, 1987 SD Jones defeated the Red Demon; Jim Korderas made his debut as a referee for the match Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Demolition defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Dan Spivey Koko B. Ware fought Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) to a time-limit draw Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) via disqualificationWWF @ Vancouver, British Columbia – PNE Coliseum – March 18, 1987 Nick Kiniski vs. Steve Lombardi Paul Roma vs. Frenchy Martin Outback Jack vs. Nikolai Volkoff Bob Orton Jr. vs. Jacques Rougeau Blackjack Mulligan vs. the Iron Sheik Don Muraco vs. Raymond Rougeau King Kong Bundy vs. Kamala Ricky Steamboat, Billy Jack Haynes, & Tito Santana vs. WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, Hercules, & Butch Reed (elimination match)WWF @ Oshawa, Ontario – Civic Auditorium – March 18, 1987 Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs SD Jones defeated Jose Luis Rivera Demolition defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Mike Rotundo) & Danny Spivey Koko B. Ware fought Danny Davis to a double count-out Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualificationWWF @ Milwaukee, WI – Mecca – March 18, 1987 (3,500) Dino Bravo defeated Brad Rheingans Dick Slater defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Jim Duggan defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake Paul Orndorff defeated George Steele via disqualification Rick Martel, the Crusher (both subs. for Roddy Piper and the Junkyard Dog), & Jake Roberts defeated Adrian Adonis, King Harley Race, & the Honkytonk Man in an elimination match; Roberts was the sole survivorWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – March 19, 1987 (7,391) Jim Duggan defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Rick Martel defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification Dick Slater defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Dino Bravo defeated Brad Rheingans Tom Zenk fought Brutus Beefcake to a 20-minute draw The Crusher (sub. for the Junkyard Dog), George Steele, & Jake Roberts fought Paul Orndorff, King Harley Race, & the Honkytonk Man to a double disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan (w/ Billy Jack Haynes) pinned Paul Orndorff (sub. for Hercules) (w/ Bobby Heenan & Andre the Giant) in a non-title matchWWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – March 19, 1987 (5,980) Paul Roma defeated Frenchy Martin Nick Kiniski defeated Steve Lombardi The Iron Sheik defeated Outback Jack via disqualification King Kong Bundy fought Kamala to a double disqualification Raymond Rougeau defeated Bob Orton Jr. via disqualification in less than a minute Don Muraco fought Jacques Rougeau to a 20-minute time-limit draw Blackjack Mulligan defeated Nikolai Volkoff in less than a minute Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana, & Blackjack Mulligan (sub. for Roddy Piper) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, Adrian Adonis, & Butch Reed in an elimination match; Steamboat & Santana were the survivors for their teamWWF @ San Bernardino, CA – Orange Pavilion – March 19, 1987 Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Included 3 other matchesWWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – March 20, 1987 (10,120; sell out) Dino Bravo pinned Brad Rheingans Dick Slater defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Jim Duggan defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Tom Zenk fought Brutus Beefcake to a draw Rick Martel defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification Jake Roberts, George Steele, & the Crusher (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) defeated Paul Orndorff, King Harley Race, & the Honkytonk Man when Roberts pinned Orndorff WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan (w/ Billy Jack Haynes) pinned Hercules (w/ Andre the Giant)WWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – March 20, 1987 (11,111; sell out) Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi The Iron Sheik defeated Nick Kiniski Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Raymond Rougeau defeated Bob Orton Jr. Don Muraco fought Jacques Rougeau to a draw Blackjack Mulligan defeated Nikolai Volkoff via disqualification King Kong Bundy fought Kamala to a double count-out Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana & Blackjack Mulligan (sub. for Roddy Piper) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, Adrian Adonis & Butch Reed in an elimination matchWWF @ Las Vegas, NV – Thomas & Mack Center – March 21, 1987 (14,434; 11,942 paid)The 1st event held in Las VegasWWF Superstars taping:Jake Roberts vs. Kamala was originally scheduled for the showFeatured an non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guests Bobby Heenan & King Harley Race, where Missy questioned Heenan as to why he was called ‘the Brain’ and not ‘the brawn;’ Heenan then asked when they would be invited back on the show, with Missy telling him “don’t call us, we’ll call you”, with Heenan and Race then storming off the set Featured a non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guests Rick Martel & Tom Zenk, where she couldn’t stop admiring how hot they were and called them the hottest tag team in wrestling; she then gave them a guided tour of the rest of her manor Featured a non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guests the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart, where Missy questioned Honky as to why he carries the guitar but never sings, with Honky saying that even though the fans love him, they need to show him a bit more respect before they hear him sing; Missy then motioned that his singing would stink as much as his wrestling, with Hart then taking Honky off the set after saying he always has to keep the women away from Honky, with Missy not looking very interested in him The Shadow (Randy Colley) pinned Lanny Poffo Jim Duggan pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 5:08 Ricky Steamboat, the Junkyard Dog, & Jake Roberts (sub. for Roddy Piper) defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage, King Harley Race, & Adrian Adonis at 8:27 when Roberts pinned Race with a roll up WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan (w/ Billy Jack Haynes) pinned Hercules (w/ Andre the Giant) at 9:01 with the legdropPrime Time Wrestling – 4/20/87: The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated George Steele via count-out at 4:18 when Honky reentered the ring as Steele was distracted by Hart; after the bout, Steele chased Honky and Hart from the ring4/11/87 – included an ‘Update’ segment where it was announced Mr. Fuji was now the manager of Demolition, with comments from all three; featured Craig DeGeorge interviewing Miss Elizabeth, who said Randy Savage was extremely upset over losing the IC title, with Savage later saying he would regain it; included comments from WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat and his wife Bonnie where they announced they were expecting a ‘little dragon’ shortly; featured the second ‘Ken Patera Story’ where it was claimed Patera had been brainwashed by Bobby Heenan and Heenan was the main reason why he ended up in jail; included Craig DeGeorge interviewing Jimmy Hart, where Adrian Adonis was shown for the first time as completely bald, following the events of WrestleMania III: Koko B. Ware pinned Jimmy Jack Funk at 2:18 with the Ghostbuster Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Tom Sharpe & Nick Kiniski at 3:14 when Bravo pinned Sharpe with the side suplex The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jim Young at 2:20 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; Hart came to the ring with a ‘Ban the DDT’ sign, beginning their campaign to have Jake Roberts’ finisher banned Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Terry Gibbs & Bill Howard at 1:59 when Raymond pinned Howard following the double team off the top Hercules (w/ Bobby Heean) defeated Billy Anderson via submission with the full nelson at 1:04 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Rick Hunter & SD Jones in a non-title match at 2:24 when Bret pinned Hunter following the Hart Attack; after the bout, the British Bulldogs made the save, with Matilda chasing all four heels backstage4/18/87 – included an ‘Update’ segment focusing on Brutus Beefcake; featured footage of Mr. Fuji feeding Sika raw fish, with Kamala trying to eat the fish as well, to prepare the team for their match later in the show; included Craig DeGeorge interviewing Blackjack Mulligan on his ranch, discussing Ron Bass; featured the third ‘Ken Patera Story’, where Patera said he was going to rid the world of Bobby Heenan: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Dusty Wolfe & Barry O at 3:59 when Martel pinned Wolfe following a slingshot splash Ron Bass pinned Alex Knight at 1:59 with a flying back elbow Jim Duggan pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 2:40 with the running clothesline Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated Jesse Cortez & Jerry Allen at 2:05 when Kamala pinned Cortez with a splash; after the bout, Kamala went to the top rope and prepared to hit another splash but was talked down by Fuji & Kimchee Jake Roberts pinned Joe Mirto with the DDT at 4:25 King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Billy Anderson at 1:54 with the cradle suplex4/25/87 – included an ‘Update’ segment focusing on Danny Davis; featured the final ‘Ken Patera Story’ segment, where Patera was shown leaving prison and training in the gym; included Gene Okerlund interviewing Bobby Heenan, where Heenan agreed to have a live debate with Patera the following week; featured closing comments from Brutus Beefcake & Johnny V where they discussed their match scheduled for the following week: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 2:24 when Ax pinned Roma following the Decapitation (Fuji’s first appearance at ringside with Demolition) Tito Santana pinned Ed Dean at the 3-minute mark with the flying forearm The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Tom Sharpe at 3:07 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Steve Lombardi & Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:25 with Brunzell pinned Sharpe following a dropkick Blackjack Mulligan & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Rick Renslow & Dave Wagner when Mulligan pinned Renslow with the flying back elbow Butch Reed, the Iron Sheik, & Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) defeated Sivi Afi & the Islanders at 2:55 when Reed pinned Afi following a gorilla press slam; prior to the bout, Jim Duggan – who was in the front row after buying a ticket – cleared all the heels from the ring when Volkoff began singing the Russian national anthem; after the bout, Duggan once again cleared the heels from the ring when they began attacking their opponents after the bellWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – March 22, 1987 (10,900)Wrestling Challenge taping:Included more non-televised tapings of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” talk show with guests Bobby Heenan & King Harley Race, and also the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart, which were simply retakes of the previous night’s segments Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Ricky Steamboat & Billy Jack Haynes defeated WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) & Hercules via disqualification at 11:51 when Savage hit a double axe handle on Haynes from the top rope as Haynes had the full nelson applied on Hercules (Randy Savage Unreleased: The Unseen Matches of the Macho Man) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan (w/ Blackjack Mulligan) defeated King Harley Race (sub. for King Kong Bundy) (w/ Andre the Giant) in a non-title match; after the bout, Hogan and Andre had a staredown in the middle of the ring4/12/87 – included Ron Bass as a guest of the Snake Pit: Tito Santana, Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid defeated the Gladiator, Jimmy Jack Funk, & Barry O when Santana pinned the Gladiator with the flying forearm at 3:58 Butch Reed pinned Sivi Afi with the press slam B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Rick Renslow & Dave Wagner following a dropkick by Jim Brunzell King Harley Race pinned Jim Young with a cradle suplex Demolition defeated Lanny Poffo & Billy Anderson when Ax pinned Anderson4/19/87: Koko B. Ware pinned Bill Howard with the Ghostbuster Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Powers submitted to Valentine’s figure-4 Jim Duggan pinned Terry Gibbs with the running clothesline The Honkytonk Man pinned Jerry Allen with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll neckbreaker Jake Roberts pinned Dusty Wolfe with the DDT Hercules defeated Tommy Sharpe via submission with the full nelson4/26/87 – included Jim Duggan as a guest of the Snake Pit: Tom Zenk & Rick Martel defeated Steve Lombardi & Iron Mike Sharpe when Martel pinned Lombardi following a slingshot splash at 3:11 Billy Jack Haynes defeated Tiger Chung Lee via submission with the full nelson at 1:56 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Nick Kiniski & Joe Mirto following the Hart Attack The Islanders fought Jacques & Raymond Rougeau to a double count-out Kamala & Sika defeated Alex Knight & SD Jones when Kamala pinned Knight with a splash George Steele defeated Jesse Cortez via submission with the flying hammerlockWrestleMania III – Pontiac, MI – Silverdome – March 29, 1987 (78,000; 75,700 paid; sell out; announced at 93,173; new indoor attendance world record)Pay-per-view bouts – featured an opening in-ring introduction by Vince McMahon; included Aretha Franklin performing “America the Beautiful;” featured Gorilla Monsoon & Jesse Ventura on commentary, Bob Ueker and Mary Hart briefly joining the commentary team before the opening match; included a video package highlighting the feud between Billy Jack Hayes and Hercules; featured Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hercules & Bobby Heenan regarding his match later in the show; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with King Kong Bundy, alongside Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo, regarding the mixed tag team match later in the show; included Mary Hart conducting a backstage interview with Miss Elizabeth, with WWF IC Champion Randy Savage then appearing and cutting a promo on facing Ricky Steamboat later in the show; featured a video package highlighting the feud between the Junkyard Dog and Harley Race; included a pre-taped backstage interview by Okerlund with Race, Heenan, & WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah regarding Race’s upcoming match against JYD; featured McMahon conducting a backstage interview with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan regarding his upcoming match with Andre the Giant; included a pre-taped backstage interview by Okerlund with Johnny V, Dino Bravo, Brutus Beefcake & Greg Valentine over why Beefcake & Valentine needed Bravo in their corner for their upcoming match with Jacques & Raymond Rougeau; featured a video package highlighting the feud between Roddy Piper and Adrian Adoins, followed by a pre-taped promo by Piper; included a pre-taped backstage interview by Okerlund of Adonis and Jimmy Hart regarding Adonis’ upcoming match with Piper; featured a pre-taped backstage interview by Okerlund of Hart, Danny Davis, and WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart regarding their upcoming match; included a pre-taped backstage interview by Okerlund of Andre and Heenan regarding Andre’s upcoming match with Hogan; featured a video package highlighting the Savage / Steamboat feud; included a pre-taped backstage interview by Okerlund of Jake Roberts and Alice Cooper regarding Roberts’ upcoming match against the Honkytonk Man; featured Okerlund making an in-ring announcement that 93,173 fans were in attendance, marking a indoor attendance world record; included Okerlund conducting a second backstage interview with Andre and Heenan regarding facing Hogan in a matter of moments; featured a video package highlighting the feud between Hogan and Andre; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his upcoming title defense; a young Rob Van Dam was in attendance for the event Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 5:37 when Martel pinned Muraco with a crossbody / school boy roll up double team Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) to a double count-out at 7:52 when both men fell through the ropes and Haynes applied the full nelson on his opponent on the floor; after the match, Hercules wrapped his steel chain around his fist and hit Haynes with it as Haynes attempted to get at Heenan; moments later, Hercules used the chain twice more, causing Haynes to bleed from the forehead, and briefly applied the full nelson Hillbilly Jim, the Haiti Kid, & Little Beaver defeated King Kong Bundy, Lord Littlebrook, & Little Tokyo via disqualification in a mixed tag team match when Bundy hit an elbow drop on Little Beaver; after the match, all the remaining midgets and Jim made the save; Bob Ueker did guest commentary for the bout King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan & WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah) pinned the Junkyard Dog at 3:23 with a belly to belly suplex after JYD was distracted by Heenan on the apron; due to prematch stipulations, JYD had to bow before Race – which he did before hitting Race with a chair and stealing the robe and crown (WWE Hall of Fame 2004, Legends of Wrestling) Greg Valentine & Brutus Beefcake (w/ Johnny V & Dino Bravo) defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau at 4:03 when Valentine pinned Raymond after Bravo came off the top, moments after the Rougeaus hit their double team finisher; during the bout, Bobby Heenan joined the commentary team to brag about his men being 2 for 2 and ignoring the fact King Kong Bundy lost his bout; after the match, Valentine, Johnny V, and Bravo abandoned Beefcake in the ring after Beefcake argued over Bravo’s interference Roddy Piper defeated Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) via submission with the sleeper at 6:13 in a Hair vs. Hair match after Brutus Beefcake revived Piper from Adonis’ sleeper and Adonis accidentally hit himself in the head with his own clippers; after the match, Piper held Hart down as Beefcake cut Adonis’ hair; when Adonis came to, Piper held a mirror in front of him which resulted in Adonis going crazy, hitting the mirror, and chasing Piper until Adonis eventually fell down and was led away by Hart; moments later, a fan came in the ring but was led away by officials; Piper was congratulated by Blackjack Lanza, Pat Patterson, and Arnold Skaaland on the floor as this was deemed his farewell match (Piper’s last appearance for 2 years) (Crunch Classic, Born to Controversy: The Roddy Piper Story, Legends of Wrestling: Roddy Piper and Terry Funk) Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Tito Santana, Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid at 8:50 when Davis pinned Smith after hitting him with Jimmy Hart’s megaphone, moments after Davis sustained a tombstone and the running powerslam from Smith; prior to the bout beginning, Jesse Ventura was introduced to the crowd by Howard Finkel before shaking hands with the heel team and taking Matilda the bulldog backstage; Mary Hart and Ueker did guest commentary for the match (Davis’ in-ring debut) (The Hart Foundation) Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Koko B. Ware at 3:38 by using the tights for leverage after a crossbody by Koko put Reed on top; after the match, Tito Santana made the save for Koko and attacked Slick, ripping his shirt completely off; moments later, Koko and Santana sent Reed to the ring with a double dropkick Ricky Steamboat (w/ George Steele) pinned WWF IC Champion Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) to win the title at 14:35 with an inside cradle after Steele pushed Savage off the top as Savage prepared to come off the top and hit the challenger with the time keeper’s bell (voted Match of the Year by the Wrestling Observer Newsletter and Pro Wrestling Illustrated) (History of the Intercontinental Championship, Macho Madness: The Ultimate Randy Savage Collection, Ricky Steamboat: The Life of the Dragon, The True Story of WrestleMania) The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jake Roberts (w/ Alice Cooper) at 7:04 with a roll up and holding onto the ropes for leverage after Hart prevented Roberts’ attempt at the DDT by grabbing his leg; after the match, Honky briefly left ringside after Roberts almost smashed the guitar over his head, breaking it against the ringpost; moments later, Roberts grabbed Hart, allowing Alice to torture Hart with Damien the snake until Hart ran backstage with Honky (Jake “The Snake” Roberts, Jake “The Snake” Roberts: Pick Your Poison) Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik (w/ Slick) defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell via disqualification at 5:43 when Jim Duggan chased Volkoff into the ring, eventually hitting Sheik in the back with his 2×4 as Sheik had Brunzell trapped in the Camel Clutch; prior to the Killer Bees’ entrance, Duggan ran to the ring and interrupted Volkoff’s singing of the Russian National Anthem, eventually cutting a promo that he would not allow Volkoff to sing that; Duggan remained ringside for the duration of the match WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Andre the Giant (w/ Bobby Heenan) with a bodyslam and the legdrop at 12:07; Bob Ueker was the guest ring announcer and Mary Hart was the guest time keeper; after the match, Hogan was presented with a new heavyweight title belt (WrestleMania: The Greatest Matches 94, WWF Strong Men, Hulk Still Rules, Hulkamania 3, Hulkamania 4, WWF Champion Hulk Hogan’s Greatest Matches, Best of Hulkamania, The Best of the WWF: Hulkamania, The History of the WWE Heavyweight Championship, Hulk Hogan: The Ultimate Anthology, The True Story of WrestleMania, History of WWE)WWF @ Granby, Quebec – Palais des Sports – April 7, 1987 (800)Edouard Carpentier was the guest ring announcer for the show Frenchy Martin defeated SD Jones WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Velvet McIntyre Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Dino Bravo defeated Cpl. Kirchner The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated King Harley Race & HerculesWWF @ Trois-Rivieres, Quebec – Colisee de Trois-Rivieres – April 8, 1987 (800)Edouard Carpentier was the guest ring announcer for the show Frenchy Martin defeated SD Jones Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Dino Bravo defeated Cpl. Kirchner WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Velvet McIntyre The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated King Harley Race & HerculesWWF @ Victoriaville, Quebec – Colisee des Bois-Francs – April 9, 1987 WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Also included SD Jones, Frenchy Martin, Lanny Poffo, Jimmy Jack Funk, Cpl. Kirchner, Bob Orton Jr., Dino Bravo, Don Muraco, the Islanders, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, King Harley Race & HerculesStampede @ Calgary, Alberta – April 10, 1987 Davey Boy Smith defeated WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart after the Dynamite Kid interferedWWF @ Quebec City, Quebec – Colisee de Quebec – April 10, 1987Edouard Carpentier was the guest ring announcer for the show SD Jones vs. Frenchy Martin Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Cpl. Kirchner vs. Bob Orton Jr. WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Dino Bravo vs. Haku Don Muraco vs. Tama Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. King Harley Race & Hercules 14-man battle royal with participants: SD Jones, Frenchy Martin, Lanny Poffo, Jimmy Jack Funk, Cpl. Kirchner, Bob Orton Jr., Dino Bravo, Don Muraco, the Islanders, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, King Harley Race & HerculesStampede @ Edmonton, Alberta – April 11, 1987 Davey Boy Smith defeated WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart via disqualificationWWF @ Roberval, Quebec – Centre Sportif – April 11, 1987Edouard Carpentier was the guest ring announcer for the show SD Jones vs. Frenchy Martin Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Cpl. Kirchner vs. Dino Bravo WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre The Islanders vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. King Harley Race & HerculesWWF @ Jonquiere, Quebec – Palais des Sports – April 12, 1987 (matinee) SD Jones vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) vs. Frenchy Martin Cpl. Kirchner vs. Hercules WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Dino Bravo vs. Haku King Harley Race vs. Tama Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. 14-man battle royal with participants: SD Jones, Frenchy Martin, Lanny Poffo, Jimmy Jack Funk, Cpl. Kirchner, Bob Orton Jr., Dino Bravo, Don Muraco, the Islanders, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, King Harley Race & HerculesWWF @ Rimouski, Quebec – Coliseum – April 15, 1987 SD Jones vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) vs. Frenchy Martin King Harley Race vs. Tama Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Dino Bravo defeated Haku Hercules defeated Cpl. Kirchner WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Velvet McIntyre King Harley Race won a 14-man battle royal; other participants included: SD Jones, Frenchy Martin, Lanny Poffo, Jimmy Jack Funk, Cpl. Kirchner, Bob Orton Jr., Dino Bravo, Don Muraco, the Islanders, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, & HerculesWWF @ Edmundston, New Brunswick – Forum – April 16, 1987Edouard Carpentier was the guest ring announcer for the show Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) defeated Frenchy Martin SD Jones defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Dino Bravo defeated Cpl. Kirchner WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Velvet McIntyre Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. The Islanders defeated King Harley Race & HerculesStampede @ Calgary, Alberta – April 17, 1987 Owen Hart pinned North American Champion Mukham Singh to win the title WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart defeated Davey Boy Smith in a chain matchWWF @ Saint-Georges, Quebec – Palais des Sports – April 17, 1987Edouard Carpentier was the guest ring announcer for the show SD Jones vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Lanny Poffo (sub. for Tom Magee) vs. Frenchy Martin Cpl. Kirchner vs. Dino Bravo WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre The Islanders vs. King Harley Race & Hercules Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.WWF @ Worcester, MA – Centrum – April 23, 1987 (9,805; sell out)WWF Superstars taping:Mel Philips was the ring announcer for the taping, subbing for Howard FinkelFeatured a non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guests Randy Savage & Miss Elizabeth, where Missy said she didn’t want to ask Savage about his loss of the IC Title at WrestleMania III as that will be all everyone has been asking him and she didn’t want to upset him, so Missy tried to ask questions to Elizabeth instead but Savage kept interrupting, saying that he was the star; Missy then asked Elizabeth what it was like to be with a loser, which caused Savage to threaten her if she speaks about him like that again; finally she asked Elizabeth what a nice girl like her was doing with a guy like Savage, with Savage then taking Elizabeth off the set after threatening he would redecorate it Featured a non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guest Bobby Heenan, where he appeared in a neckbrace following the attack from Ken Patera earlier in the taping, with Heenan saying he couldn’t verbally defeat him so Patera had to attack him like the ex-convict that he is; Missy said she could understand why Patera would attack him after Heenan had not made contact with Patera in the 2 years he was in jail Featured a non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guest Ken Patera, where Patera said he wish he had broke Bobby Heenan’s neck and not just sprained it, and accepted Heenan’s challenge to face Hercules the following week; during the segment, they referred to the Patera / Heenan debate as taking place the previous week, indicating that the segment was scheduled to air on 5/9/87 Featured a non-televised segment of Missy Hyatt’s “Missy’s Manor” with guests Adrian Adonis & Jimmy Hart, were Missy made fun of Adonis for being bald, with Adonis saying he would get even with Brutus Beefcake for what happened at WrestleMania III, with Adonis & Hart storming off the set after Adonis said she should be in the kitchen and not out here pretending to run a Flower Shop The Shadows defeated Nick Kiniski & Lanny Poffo Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double count-out Ken Patera defeated Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan & King Harley Race) via disqualification when Race interfered as Hercules was caught in the bearhug; after the match, Billy Jack Haynes made the save; the bout was so bad that it had to be redone the following night before airing on Superstars (Patera’s return match) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) in a handicap match at around 9:15 when Hogan pinned Neidhart with the legdrop (Even More Unusual Matches)Prime Time Wrestling – 5/11/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Bob Orton Jr. & Don Muraco (w/ Mr. Fuji) via disqualification at 10:19 when Muraco & Orton refused to stop double teaming Jacques; after the bout, Raymond made the save and helped in clearing the ring of the opposition5/2/87 – included an in-ring debate between the returning Ken Patera and Bobby Heenan, hosted by Gene Okerlund; during the segment, Heenan attempted to attack Patera with his belt, with Patera easily fighting him off, wrapping the belt around Heenan’s neck, and throwing him across the ring; Heenan was taken out on a stretcher following the incident, which resulted in Heenan wearing a neckbrace for several months; included an ‘Update’ segment focusing on Billy Jack Haynes; included footage of Kamala & Sika where they were shown eating a live lobster; featured Craig DeGeorge interviewing Blackjack Mulligan, discussing Ron Bass; featured closing comments from the Hart Foundation & Jimmy Hart, as well as the British Bulldogs discussing the Bret / Davey match the following week: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned SD Jones with the flying elbowsmash at 1:40; prior to the match, Savage took exception to the ring announcer referring to him as the former IC Champion; after the bout, Savage hit a double axe handle off the top, tossed Jones to the floor, and hit a second double axe handle from the top rope to the floor Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V via submission with the sleeper at 1:42; after the bout, Beefcake shaved off part of Johnny V’s head as he lay unconscious (Beefcake’s debut as ‘the Barber’) Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Nelson Veilluex at 1:27 with a knee drop off the middle turnbuckle to the head (Khan’s return after a 5-year absence) Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Dusty Wolfe & Rocky Stone (Tom Stone) at 3:03 when Martel pinned Wolfe with a slingshot splash Adrian Adonis (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Jake Milliman via submission at 1:10 with the sleeper (Adonis’ first and only TV appearance after being shaved bald at WrestleMania III)5/9/87 – included an ‘Update’ segment where Bobby Heenan issued a challenge to Ken Patera to face Hercules the following week, with Patera accepting as the show ended; featured Craig DeGeorge interviewing Ron Bass, discussing Blackjack Mulligan; included footage of Brutus Beefcake in a barber shop: WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 3:25 with a karate chop off the top The Iron Sheik, Nikolai Volkoff, & Butch Reed (w/ Slick) defeated Jim Powers, Paul Roma, & Joe Mirto at 2:38 when Reed pinned Mirto with a gorilla press slam; after the bout, Slick sang the Russian National Anthem Jake Roberts pinned Rick Gantner at 1:23 with the DDT Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Mike Richards at 2:52 with a kneedrop off the top to the head, after hitting the same move from the middle turnbuckle B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell & Koko B. Ware defeated Steve Lombardi, Pete Doherty, & Terry Gibbs at 2:53 when Koko pinned Doherty with the Ghostbuster (Blair, Brunzell, and Koko all wore a ‘Killer Bee’ mask for the duration of the bout) Davey Boy Smith (w/ the Dynamite Kid) pinned WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart (w/ WWF Tag Team Champion Jim Neidhart & Jimmy Hart) at 3:44 with the running powerslam after Dynamite and Neidhart began fighting on the floor; after the bout, Danny Davis and Bret double teamed Smith in the ring as Neidhart held Dynamite on the floor5/16/87 – included the Hercules / Ken Patera match from the following day’s Wrestling Challenge taping and an interview with Patera following the match; included an ‘Update’ segment focusing on King Harley Race; featured Craig DeGeorge interviewing Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo discussing Brutus Beefcake; featured closing comments from Bob Orton Jr. & Don Muraco and WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan regarding the Orton / Hogan match the following week: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated the Islanders at 3:50 when Smash pinned Tama after Fuji tripped Tama from the top rope by hooking Tama’s foot with his cane Jim Duggan pinned Dave Barbie at 2:49 with the running clothesline; after the bout, Duggan led the crowd into singing ‘America the Beautiful’ and then a loud ‘USA’ chant The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Joe Milano at 1:46 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Rick Hunter at 1:23 with a kneedrop off the top to the head Blackjack Mulligan, Tito Santana, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated the Shadows & Iron Mike Sharpe at 4:40 when Sharpe submitted to Haynes’ full nelsonWWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – April 24, 1987Wrestling Challenge taping: Koko B. Ware fought Danny Davis to a draw WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Jake Roberts, & Tito Santana defeated King Harley Race, Butch Reed, & the Honkytonk ManWWF Superstars – 5/16/87: Ken Patera defeated Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan & King Harley Race) via disqualification at 3:12 when Race interfered as Hercules was caught in the bearhug; after the match, Billy Jack Haynes made the save (Patera’s return match) (The Ken Patera Story)5/3/87 – George Steele did guest commentary for the program (sub. for Bobby Heenan); included Tito Santana, Danny Davis, and Koko B. Ware as guests of the Snake Pit: WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat pinned Terry Gibbs in a non-title match with a karate chop off the top Nikolai Volkoff, the Iron Sheik, & Butch Reed (w/ Slick) defeated Lanny Poffo, Sivi Afi, & Mario Mancini when the Sheik applied the Camel Clutch on Mancini; before the match, Volkoff attempted to sing the Russian National Anthem but Jim Duggan came ringside and cut the microphone chord with a pair of pliers King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Nelson Veilleux with the cradle suplex Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Rick Gantner & Rocky Stone when Davey Boy Smith pinned Gantner with the running powerslam Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) when Martel pinned Sika with a splash off the top; after the bout, Martel saved Zenk from a beating by chasing the opposition away with Fuji’s cane Ron Bass pinned Rick Hunter5/10/87 – Ron Bass did guest commentary for the program (sub for Bobby Heenan); included Mr. Fuji and Killer Khan as guests of the Snake Pit: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Nick Kiniski with the elbowsmash off the top Jacques & Raymond Rougeau fought Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) to a double count-out Tito Santana, Paul Roma, & Jim Powers defeated Bob Orton Jr., Don Muraco, & Tiger Chung Lee when Santana pinned Lee with the flying forearm after Muraco and Orton walked out of the match The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated George Steele via disqualification at the 23-second mark after Steele attempted to hit Honky with his own guitar but Honky moved out of the way and Steele ended up destroying the guitar on the ring steps5/17/87 – included Johnny V, Greg Valentine, and Dino Bravo as guests of the Snake Pit: WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Butch Reed (w/ Slick) via count-out in a non-title match at 6:08 when the champion was able to reenter the ring after both men fell to the floor WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Joe Mirto & Jack Miller in a non-title match when Bret pinned Miller with the Hart Attack Koko B. Ware pinned Dave Wagner with the Ghostbuster B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the Islanders via disqualification when Haku shoved the referee Billy Jack Haynes defeated Iron Mike Sharpe via submission with the full nelson Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) fought Outback Jack to a no contest when Khan attacked Jack before the bell and choked him out with Fuji’s caneWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – April 25, 1987 (6,690) SD Jones defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat via count-out Jake Roberts defeated Bobby Heenan Ron Bass defeated Nick Kiniski Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the ShadowsWWF @ Port Jervis, NY – High School Gym – April 25, 1987 Included Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., Koko B. Ware, King Harley Race, WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah & Blackjack MulliganWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – April 25, 1987 (9,651) Jim Powers defeated Frenchy Martin Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Demolition defeated the Islanders Butch Reed pinned Lanny Poffo Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Danny Davis defeated Tito Santana via count-out Adrian Adonis pinned Brutus Beefcake WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji) via disqualification when the Honkytonk Man (dressed as Kimchee) interfered and broke up the pin after Hogan hit the legdrop; Hogan then unmasked Kimchee to reveal him as Honky, with Hogan then being triple teamed, with Fuji & Honky holding down Hogan so Kamala could splash himWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – April 26, 1987 Jimmy Jack Funk defeated Sivi Afi (sub. for Danny Spivey) Jerry Allen defeated Frenchy Martin Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Shadows Adrian Adonis fought Brutus Beefcake to a draw Jake Roberts fought the Honkytonk Man to a double count-out Tito Santana defeated Danny Davis WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – April 26, 1987 (8,356) Steve Lombardi pinned Tony Garea Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik Demolition defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Butch Reed pinned Nick Kiniski Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated the Islanders Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match Kamala pinned George Steele WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualificationWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Municipal Stadium – April 26, 1987 (matinee) (5,003)Matches took place after the Phoenix Firebirds vs. Vancouver baseball game Koko B. Ware vs. King Harley Race B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated King Kong Bundy Also included 2 other matchesWWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – April 27, 1987 (1,561) Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Frankie Lane Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Demolition defeated the Islanders Pedro Morales pinned Jimmy Jack Funk WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Velvet McIntyre Brutus Beefcake pinned Adrian Adonis (Adonis’ last appearance as he was fired following the match) Brutus Beefcake won a battle royalWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – April 27, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. Ron Bass Outback Jack vs. Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel defeated Nikolai Volkoff via disqualification Tom Zenk fought Don Muraco to a draw Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat, Jake Roberts, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Randy Savage, Hercules, & the Honkytonk Man in an elimination matchWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – April 27, 1987 (4,931) Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Pat Patterson) defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau when Bravo pinned Raymond after Patterson clotheslined Raymond from the apron when the referee was distracted putting Jacques out of the ring Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed George Steele vs. Kamala (steel cage match) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Peterborough, Ontario – April 28, 1987 (2,422) Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Butch Reed defeated Koko B. Ware Koko B. Ware won a battle royalWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – April 28, 1987 (9,345; sell out) Jerry Allen pinned Steve Lombardi Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Ken Patera defeated Andre the Giant & Hercules (sub. for Bobby Heenan) when Hogan pinned HerculesSaturday Night’s Main Event #11 – 5/2/87 on NBC (9.5) – featured pre-taped comments from Randy Savage, WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat, Jimmy Hart, Danny Davis, and WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart, Jim Duggan, Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan, and WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan regarding the upcoming telecast; included Animotion’s “Obsession” as the opening theme song; featured Vince McMahon & Jesse Ventura on commentary; included footage from earlier in the day on WWF Superstars of Ken Patera injuring Heenan, causing him to have to wear a neckbrace; featured Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Kamala, Mr. Fuji, & Kimchee regarding Kamala’s upcoming match with Jake Roberts; included footage of the Honkytonk Man attacking Roberts during the Snake Pit, followed by Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Roberts regarding his upcoming match; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with George Steele regarding his lumberjack match with Savage; moments later, Steamboat spoke with Okerlund backstage and said he would be there to support Steele since Steele helped him at WrestleMania III; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Savage & Miss Elizabeth regarding his IC title loss and his upcoming match with Steele; featured Okerlund conducting a sit-down interview with Heenan & Andre regarding Andre’s match with Hogan at WrestleMania III, with Heenan arguing Andre’s near fall within the opening moments of the match should have earned Andre the title; Heenan then said WWF President Jack Tunney should strip Hogan of the title and award it to Andre or schedule a rematch; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Davis, Jimmy Hart, Bret & Neidhart regarding their controversial title win and controversial win at WrestleMania; during the segment, Davis lunged at Okerlund until he was dragged off by the Hart Foundation; featured Okerlund conducting an interview with Hogan regarding the outcome of his match with Andre at WrestleMania III; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Steamboat regarding his upcoming title defense against Hercules; featured Okerlund conducting an interview with Duggan in the audience, with Duggan saying he bought a ticket to guarantee he would be ringside should Nikolai Volkoff attempt to sing the Russian National Anthem; included Slick, Volkoff, & the Iron Sheik conducting an insert promo regarding their upcoming match; featured Phil Collins’ “Take Me Home” as the closing theme song: Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) pinned Jake Roberts at 4:18 with a splash after Kimchee interfered as the referee was distracted by Fuji and hit a clothesline to the back of the head of Roberts; after the match, Kimchee climbed back in the ring and took off his costume to reveal himself as the Honkytonk Man, who then dropped several elbows on Roberts before dropping him with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; Honky then took the mic and thanked the fans for their support before leaving ringside (Jake “The Snake” Roberts) Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned George Steele in a lumberjack match at 6:44 with the flying elbowsmash after Danny Davis, one of the lumberjacks, climbed in the ring and hit Steele from behind with the timekeeper’s bell as the other lumberjacks fought on the floor; lumberjacks for the bout included Davis, WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat, Hercules, Jake Roberts, Jim Duggan, Kimchee, the Honkytonk Man, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart, the Dynamite Kid & Davey Boy Smith, Tito Santana, Rick Martel & Tom Zenk, the Iron Sheik & Nikolai Volkoff; prior to the match, Hercules and Steamboat and the Hart Foundation and the British Bulldogs almost came to blows; Duggan was ejected from ringside at around the 4-minute mark after chasing several of the other lumberjacks in and around the ring with his 2×4; after the contest, the lumberjacks brawled in the ring until Jake Roberts appeared, his ribs taped, and cleared Kimchee from the ring with Damien; the bout was announced to be the last meeting between Savage and Steele Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid (w/ Tito Santana) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) in a Best 2 out of 3 falls match, 2-0; fall #1: the challengers won via disqualification at 4:34 when Neidhart, the illegal man, joined in double teaming Dynamite and refused to listen to referee Joey Marella’s orders to leave the ring; fall #2: Dynamite pinned Neidhart at 9:48 after Smith press slammed his partner onto the champion; the titles remained with the champions because the first fall ended on a disqualification (Best of Saturday Night’s Main Event)Prime Time Wrestling – 5/11/87: WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) via disqualification at 6:42 when Hercules began choking the champion with his steel chain; prior to the bout, Randy Savage was shown watching the match backstage with Miss Elizabeth and Gene Okerlund, with Savage saying he wanted to see Steamboat keep the belt so he could take it from him personally; Steamboat was shown cheering Steamboat on during the bout in an insert; Savage appeared ringside midway through the bout and grabbed Hercules’ foot as Steamboat was caught in the full nelson, causing Hercules to release the hold; after the contest, Savage went to check on Steamboat before he dropped the flying elbowsmash on the championPrime Time Wrestling – 5/18/87: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik (w/ Slick) at 4:45 when Martel pinned Sheik with a roll up as Jim Duggan, who sat ringside for the match, brawled with Volkoff inside the ring; after the bout, Duggan was knocked to the floor before he Martel & Zenk cleared the ring of the opposition– 4/87: Jake Roberts suffered torn ligaments in his shoulder.– 4/28/87: Barry O was hospitalized following a vehicle wreck near Tempe, AZ. The wreck killed his passenger, Sherri Jo Bennett, of Livermore, CA.WWF @ Rochester, NY – War Memorial – April 28, 1987 (1,486) Nick Kiniski defeated Frenchy Martin Billy Jack Haynes fought King Harley Race to a draw Don Muraco defeated Sivi Afi Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Outback Jack defeated Mario Mancini Sika defeated SD Jones Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) in a steel cage matchWWF @ Syracuse, NY – Onondoga War Memorial – April 29, 1987 Sivi Afi pinned Frenchy Martin Sika defeated Jerry Allen Billy Jack Haynes vs. King Harley Race Danny Davis pinned Koko B. Ware Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – April 29, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated the Honkytonk Man Butch Reed fought Tito Santana to a draw WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Niagara Falls, Ontario – Memorial Arena – April 29, 1987 (2,988) Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Frankie Lane (sub. for Tom Magee) The Islanders defeated the Shadows Demolition defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers when Ax pinned Roma Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) via submission with the sleeper Pedro Morales (sub. for Blackjack Mulligan) pinned Jimmy Jack Funk WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Velvet McIntyre Haku won a 14-man battle royal by last eliminating Jimmy Jack Funk, after Funk had just eliminated Brutus Beefcake; other participants included: Tama, Iron Mike Sharpe, Frankie Lane, the Shadows, Demolition, Paul Roma, Jim Powers, Johnny V, and Pedro MoralesWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – April 30, 1987 (3,742) Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo Tito Santana fought Butch Reed to a draw Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi Jim Duggan pinned the Iron Sheik at around the 4-minute mark Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match; Dynamite & Neidhart escaped the cage; Bret escaped to win the matchWWF @ Troy, NY – RPI Fieldhouse – April 30, 1987 Sika pinned Jerry Allen Billy Jack Haynes pinned King Harley Race Danny Davis pinned Koko B. Ware Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau SD Jones fought Nick Kiniski to a draw Sivi Afi (sub. for Danny Spivey) pinned Frenchy Martin WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Oshawa, Ontario – Civic Auditorium – April 30, 1987 (2,361)The scheduled Blackjack Mulligan vs. Iron Mike Sharpe match was cancelled WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Velvet McIntyre Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Jimmy Jack Funk defeated Frankie Lane (sub. for Tom Magee) Demolition defeated the Islanders Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) Paul Roma won a 14-man battle royalWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – May 1, 1987 (15,275; sell out) SD Jones defeated Terry Gibbs Nick Kiniski defeated Frenchy Martin Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) B. Brian Blair fought Demolition Ax to a double disqualification King Harley Race pinned Sivi Afi Tito Santana fought Butch Reed to a 20-minute time-limit draw WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage match after Savage accidentally knocked the champion out the cage doorWWF @ Wayne, NJ – William Paterson College – May 1, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Blackjack Mulligan vs. Iron Mike Sharpe The Islanders vs. the Shadows Sika vs. Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules (chain match)WWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – May 1, 1987 (9,557) Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo The Honkytonk Man pinned Pedro Morales Tom Zenk & Rick Martel defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Jim Duggan pinned the Iron Sheik Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala via disqualificationWWF @ Clinton, NY – Arena – May 2, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Paul Roma vs. Steve Lombardi B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. the Shadows WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre George Steele vs. Kamala Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules (chain match)WWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – May 2, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Ron Bass defeated Pedro Morales Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Tito Santana fought Butch Reed to a 20-minute draw WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – May 2, 1987 (11,834)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary; featured a “Flashback” match showing the Billy Jack Haynes / Bob Orton Jr. bout from the 11/1/86 Boston show; the scheduled Danny Spivey vs. Dave Barbie match did not take place:Prime Time Wrestling – 5/18/87: Nick Kiniski pinned Frenchy Martin with a German suplex into a bridge at 11:31Prime Time Wrestling – 5/18/87: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated the Islanders at 9:32 when Smash pinned Tama after Ax used Fuji’s cane as a weaponPrime Time Wrestling – 5/18/87: Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Sivi Afi (sub. for Blackjack Mulligan) at 9:37 by grabbing the tights for leverage after the momentum of a flying bodypress by Afi put Sharpe on top WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race at 9:17 with a roll up after Race missed a diving headbutt off the top; after the bout, Race attacked Hogan as he was posing and bloodied him; later on in the card, the champion returned ringside and challenged Race to a Texas Death Match for the following month’s card and if he couldn’t beat Race then he would quit pro wrestlingPrime Time Wrestling – 5/11/87: Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Pete Doherty at 3:07 with the Samoan DropPrime Time Wrestling – 5/18/87: Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) via submission with the sleeper at 3:24; after the bout, Beefcake spraypainted and cut some of Valiant’s hair (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake, Best of the WWF Vol. 12) Ken Patera (w/ Jake Roberts, who he was subbing for) pinned the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) with an elbow drop after Roberts tripped Honky at 9:22; during the match, Hart briefly joined the commentary team of Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes at ringside; after the bout, Patera applied the full nelson on Honky but was attacked from behind by Hart with the megaphone just as Roberts was getting Damien out of the bag to put on Honky WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification at 7:47 after Smith used Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as a weapon; after the bout, Jimmy was thrown onto the champions on the arena floorWWF @ Detroit, MI – Cobo Hall – May 3, 1987 (5,000) Jerry Allen pinned Frenchy Martin Nick Kiniski pinned Jimmy Jack Funk Ron Bass pinned Pedro Morales B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Demolition via disqualification Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage match after Savage accidentally threw the champion out the doorWWF @ Clemson, SC – Little John Coliseum – May 3, 1987 Steve Lombardi defeated Don Driggers Outback Jack defeated Al Navarro Candice Pardue defeated Donna Christianello Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated the Islanders The Honkytonk Man defeated ? (sub. for Jake Roberts) Kamala defeated George Steele Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Burlington, VT – Memorial Auditorium – May 3, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Hillbilly Jim vs. Sika Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules (chain match)– 5/4/87: Barry O was arrested, while recouperating at a hospital, in connection with the 4/28/87 wreck that killed his passenger near Tempe, AZ.WWF @ Augusta, GA – Augusta-Richmond County Civic Center – May 4, 1987 George Steele vs. Kamala Brutus Beefcake vs. Johnny V. (sub. for Adrian Adonis) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. the Honkytonk Man (steel cage match)WWF @ Peoria, IL – Civic Center – May 4, 1987 (3,500) Brad Rheingans defeated Frenchy Martin Lanny Poffo defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Ron Bass defeated Pedro Morales Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Pittsfield, MA – Boys Club – May 4, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Hillbilly Jim vs. Sika Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules (chain match)WWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – May 5, 1987 Brad Rheingans defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Pedro Morales defeated Frenchy Martin Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Poughkeepsie, NY – Mid-Hudson Civic Center – May 5, 1987 Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Velvet McIntyre Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match Hillbilly Jim defeated Sika Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the ShadowsWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – May 5, 1987 (1,500) Dick Slater pinned Tiger Chung Lee Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi The Honkytonk Man pinned Cpl. Kirchner Kamala defeated George Steele via disqualification Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a lumberjack matchWWF @ Tampa, FL – SunDome – May 6, 1987 Outback Jack pinned Steve Lombardi Dick Slater defeated Tiger Chung Lee Kamala defeated George Steele via disqualification The Honkytonk Man pinned Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Jake Roberts) Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Valhalla, NY – Westchester Community College – May 6, 1987 Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows Hillbilly Jim vs. Sika WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Billy Jack Haynes vs. HerculesWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – May 6, 1987 Danny Davis vs. Koko B. Ware Jim Duggan vs. the Iron Sheik Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat vs. Randy Savage Also included 4 other matchesWWF @ Evansville, IN – Roberts Stadium – May 6, 1987WWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – May 7, 1987 (3,780) Outback Jack defeated Tiger Chung Lee Dick Slater defeated Steve Lombardi Kamala defeated George Steele via disqualification Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) The Honkytonk Man defeated Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Jake Roberts) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Linden, NJ – High School Gym – May 7, 1987 Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows Hillbilly Jim vs. Sika WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules (lumberjack match)WWF @ Cincinnati, OH – Riverfront Coliseum – May 7, 1987 (1,251) Brad Rheingans defeated Frenchy Martin Lanny Poffo defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Ron Bass pinned Pedro Morales Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo fought Jacques & Raymond Rougeau to a double disqualification WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – May 8, 1987 (8,000)A 5-year-old Nick Nemeth (Dolph Ziggler) was in attendance Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi Brad Rheingans defeated Frenchy Martin Ron Bass defeated Pedro Morales Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Kamala defeated George Steele via disqualification Jim Duggan pinned the Iron Sheik WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race with a roll up after avoiding Race’s headbutt off the topWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – May 8, 1987 (2,776) Nikolai Volkoff defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) Sika defeated SD Jones Demolition defeated the Islanders Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows (Randy Colley & Jose Luis Rivera) WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage match at around the 5-minute markWWF @ Santa Cruz, CA – Civic Center – May 8, 1987 (1,375)Debut in Santa Cruz Nick Kiniski vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Lanny Poffo vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Tito Santana vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Tulare, CA – County Fairgrounds – May 9, 1987 (1,146)Debut in Tulare Nick Kiniski vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Lanny Poffo vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Velvet McIntyre Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Also included a 12-man battle royalWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – May 9, 1987 (8,000)Televised on the PRISM Network – featured Dick Graham & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 6/17/87: Pedro Morales pinned Steve Lombardi at 5:44 with a backbreakerPrime Time Wrestling – 6/8/87: Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows at 16:53 when Powers scored the pin with a crossbody as Roma held the other Shadow’s foot, preventing him from getting back into the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 6/17/87: Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated George Steele via count-out at the 6-minute mark when Steele chased Kimchee backstage with Fuji’s cane; after the bout, Steele returned to the ring, cleared the ring, and put on Kimchee’s hat WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race at 8:47 with a roll up after Race missed a diving headbutt; after the bout, Race grabbed the mic and told Hogan to put his belt down so they could continue their fight, which they did until Hercules appeared, choked Hogan with his chain, and helped Race double team the champion; Hogan eventually cleared both men from the ring; later in the show, Hogan returned ringside and announced he had signed to face Race & Hercules in a tag team match and they would be surprised as to who his tag team partner would bePrime Time Wrestling – 6/8/87: Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 13:28 after Honky collided with Hart on the ring apronPrime Time Wrestling – 6/17/87: Nikolai Volkoff pinned Cpl. Kirchner at 10:17 with a backbreaker Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Koko B. Ware at 14:15 after hitting him with a foreign object Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) when Jacques pinned Valentine with a small package at 10:23 after Raymond reversed the move behind the referee’s back; during the match, Johnny V briefly joined the commentary team of Dick Graham & Lord Alfred Hayes at ringside; after the bout, Valentine applied the figure-4 on Jacques until Raymond came into the ring with a chairWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – May 9, 1987 (2,300) Ron Bass defeated Brad Rheingans Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Demolition defeated the Islanders when Ax pinned Haku Sam Houston pinned Sika (Houston’s debut) Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid when Bret pinned Smith WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Bakersfield, CA – May 10, 1987 (867) Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Nick Kiniski defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Lanny Poffo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Velvet McIntyre B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. George Steele defeated Kamala via disqualification Tito Santana pinned Butch ReedWWF @ Kansas City, MO – Kemper Arena – May 10, 1987 (2,400) Ron Bass defeated Brad Rheingans Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Demolition defeated the Islanders Sam Houston defeated Sika Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid when Neidhart pinned Smith WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – May 10, 1987 Cpl. Kirchner vs. Nikolai Volkoff Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo ? (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – May 11, 1987 Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Jim Duggan vs. the Iron Sheik Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid (steel cage match) Also included 4 other matches involving Blackjack Mulligan, Hercules, Outback Jack, & Ron BassWWF @ Modesto, CA – Grace M. Davis High School Gym – May 11, 1987 (2,500) Nick Kiniski pinned Jimmy Jack Funk with a sunset flip Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs via submission with a backbreaker Lanny Poffo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe with the moonsault B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. after a Bee pinned Orton after a mask switch WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Velvet McIntyre Tito Santana pinned Butch Reed (w/ Slick) with a small packageWWF @ Oakland, CA – Coliseum – May 11, 1987 (7,900) Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi Demolition defeated the Islanders Nikolai Volkoff pinned Cpl. Kirchner Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) via disqualification Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Shadows Kamala defeated George Steele via disqualification Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Anaheim, CA – Convention Center – May 12, 1987 (7,500)WWF Superstars taping: Sam Houston defeated Steve Lombardi Tom Magee pinned Don MuracoPrime Time Wrestling – 5/25/87: Tito Santana fought Butch Reed (w/ Slick) to a time-limit draw at 18:17; after the bout, Reed continued to attack Santana until Santana hit the flying forearm and cleared Reed from the ring5/23/87 – included Bobby Heenan, Hercules, & King Harley Race as guests of the Snake Pit (1st Snake Pit on Superstars); featured an opening interview with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan discussing Memorial Day Weekend; included the first Special Report on the health of Superstar Billy Graham in which it was announced he was about to have major surgery but Graham was determined to return to the ring despite what his doctors were telling him; featured closing comments from Bobby Heenan in which he said he would unveil his newest tag team the following week: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Jerry Monti at 1:33 by placing one foot on his opponent’s chest after hitting the flying elbowsmash Hillbilly Jim & Outback Jack defeated Buddy Ryder & Dave Barbie at 2:24 when Jack pinned Ryder with a bulldog The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Jesse Cortez at 1:47 with an elbow drop from the middle turnbuckle (Gang’s TV debut) Ken Patera defeated the Gladiator via submission with the bearhug at 2:04 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) with the legdrop at around the 9-minute mark; during the bout, the top rope broke when Hogan sent Orton into the corner 5/30/87 – included Slick & the One Man Gang as guests of the Snake Pit; featured the Dino Bravo / Brutus Beefcake from the 5/24 edition of Wrestling Challenge; included an ‘Update’ segment featuring George Steele at an ice cream factory, showing how the new WWF ice cream bars are made; featured the second Special Report on Superstar Billy Graham’s health, showing the early stages of Graham’s recovery: The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tom Zenk via count-out at 3:52 when Zenk failed to return to the ring after sustaining a bodyslam and a diving headbutt on the floor from Tama; mid-way through the bout, Bobby Heenan came ringside and later was revealed to be the Islanders’ new manager The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Billy Anderson at 2:45 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Jim Duggan pinned Iron Mike Sharpe with the running clothesline at 1:53 King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Joe Mirto with the cradle suplex at 1:52 WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat pinned Dusty Wolfe in a non-title match with a karate chop off the top at 3:42 6/6/87 – included Butch Reed, Nikolai Volkoff, the Iron Sheik, & Slick as guests of the Snake Pit; featured an ‘Update’ segment focusing on the recent grouping of Bobby Heenan and the Islanders; included comments from WWF President Jack Tunney in which he announced that the DDT would not be banned, despite the protests of Jimmy Hart & the Honkytonk Man; featured the third Special Report on the health of Superstar Billy Graham focusing on his road to recovery; included closing comments from Ricky Steamboat and the Honkytonk Man regarding their IC title match the following week: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 2:54 when Ax pinned Roma with a clothesline Koko B. Ware pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 2:31 with a missile dropkick Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated Don Adams & Sivi Afi at 1:15 when Kamala pinned Adams with a splash; after the bout, Kamala went to the top rope and prepared to hit another splash but was talked down by Fuji & Kimchee Ken Patera defeated Jimmy Jack Funk via submission with the bearhug at 2:39 (The Ken Patera Story) Tito Santana & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Terry Gibbs & the Raider at 1:43 when the Raider submitted to Haynes’ full nelson Brutus Beefcake defeated Tim Patterson via submission with the sleeper at 2:40Dark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated King Harley Race via count-outWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – May 13, 1987 (7,500)Wrestling Challenge taping: Sam Houston defeated Terry GibbsWWF Superstars (Italian version): Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Tito Santana at 3:58 after hitting him with brass knuckles given to him by Jimmy HartWWF Superstars (Italian version): The Shadow (Randy Colley) pinned Paul Roma with a headbuttPrime Time Wrestling – 5/25/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Jimmy Jack Funk & Tiger Chung Lee at 4:10 when Raymond pinned Funk following the double team move off the top; Craig DeGeorge & Bobby Davis provided the original commentary for the bout, but new commentary from Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan was dubbed in for the Prime Time Wrestling airingPrime Time Wrestling – 6/1/87: Ron Bass pinned Jesse Cortez at 3:08 with the PedigreePrime Time Wrestling – 6/17/87: Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Cpl. Kirchner & Sivi Afi when Muraco pinned Afi with the tombstone at 7:175/24/87: Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) via disqualification at 3:50 when Greg Valentine interfered as Bravo was caught in the sleeper; after the bout, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau made the save for Beefcake and cleared the ring after he was locked in Valentine’s figure-4 (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake) WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat pinned Iron Mike Sharpe in a non-title match with a karate chop off the top King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Jerry Monti with a cradle suplex Hillbilly Jim, Tito Santana, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Carl Schmidt, Terry Gibbs, & Dave Barbie when Schmidt submitted to Haynes’ full nelson at 2:52 Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated Lanny Poffo & Rick Hunter when Kamala pinned Hunter with a splash following a Somoan Drop from Sika Jim Duggan pinned Steve Lombardi with the running clothesline5/31/87: Koko B. Ware pinned Dusty Wolfe at 2:34 with the Ghostbuster The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Mario Mancini at 2:05 with an elbow drop from the middle turnbuckle to Mancini’s back (Gang’s Challenge debut) Ken Patera defeated Tim Patterson via submission with the bearhug at 2:42 Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Bill Anderson & an unknown at 2:38 following the Decapitation B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Jimmy Jack Funk & the Raider at 4:39 following a Brunzell dropkick Butch Reed, the Iron Sheik, & Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) defeated Joe Mirto, Brad Rheingans, & SD Jones at 3:43 when Sheik forced a submission from Mirto with the Camel Clutch6/7/87 – included the Islanders / Martel & Zenk match from the 5/30/87 Superstars, shown in full: The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jerry Allen at 1:34 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; prior to the match, ring announcer Mel Phillips announced that WWF President Jack Tunney would not be banning Jake Roberts’ DDT Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jerry Monti at the 31-second mark via submission with the full nelson George Steele defeated Rudy Ryder at the 40-second mark via submission with the flying hammerlock Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 4:21 after Bravo hit Powers with a clothesline Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Bill Anderson with the flying elbowsmash at 2:32Dark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated KamalaWWF @ Amarillo, TX – Civic Center – May 14, 1987 Included Tito SantanaWWF @ Duluth, MN – Entertainment and Convention Center – May 14, 1987 Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs with a backbreaker Brad Rheingans defeated Jimmy Jack Funk WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V via submission with the sleeper The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes in a chain matchWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – May 14, 1987 Jerry Allen pinned Steve Lombardi Lanny Poffo pinned Tiger Chung Lee King Harley Race pinned Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Danny Spivey) Dick Slater pinned Dave Barbie Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated the Honkytonk Man Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Mr. Fuji & Sika WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned KamalaWWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – May 15, 1987Danny Spivey did not appear as advertised Cpl. Kirchner defeated Jerry Monti Jerry Allen defeated Steve Lombardi Dick Slater defeated Dave Barbie Lanny Poffo defeated Tiger Chung Lee Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated the Honkytonk Man WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated King Harley RaceWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – May 15, 1987Debut at the Coliseum; Blackjack Mulligan did not appear as advertisedFeatured Paul Boesch & Peter Birkholz on commentary; featured an in-ring promo by Ted Dibiase in which he said it was only fitting he tell the fans in Houston first that he would now be competing in the WWF; moments later, the One Man Gang, with Slick, came out for his scheduled bout, with referee Dave Hebner having to get Dibiase out of the ring before a physical confrontation could take place (Dibiase’s return after a 7-year absence)Prime Time Wrestling – 6/1/87: Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows at 13:46 when Powers scored the pin as Roma held the other Shadow’s foot from the outsidePrime Time Wrestling – 6/1/87: WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Angie Minnelli after reversing a powerslam into a small package The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) vs. ? Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellPrime Time Wrestling – 6/8/87: Sam Houston pinned Iron Mike Sharpe with a bulldog at 5:03Houston Wrestling – 5/23/87: Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick & the Iron Sheik) pinned Jim Duggan at 3:28 after Sheik tripped Duggan from the outside; after the bout, Duggan was triple-teamed until he was able to scare the opposition away with his 2X4; after the bout, Paul Boesch interviewed Duggan who promised to bring someone to be in his corner when he returns for the next Houston show to face Volkoff in a rematch WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat pinned Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) at 10:57 after Savage accidentally hit himself in the head with the timekeeper’s bell after missing Steamboat and hitting the turnbuckle instead (Randy Savage Unreleased: The Unseen Matches of the Macho Man) Also included Hillbilly Jim and the Iron SheikWWF @ Milwaukee, WI – Mecca – May 15, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Brad Rheinghans defeated Jimmy Jack Funk The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) via submission with the sleeper Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match by wrapping Haynes legs in the chain and using the ropes for leverageWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – May 16, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Lanny Poffo defeated Iron Mike Sharpe The Iron Sheik defeated Nick Kiniski Sam Houston defeated Barry O B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Demolition Jim Duggan fought Nikolai Volkoff to a no contest Butch Reed defeated Tito Santana Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat via count-outWWF @ Madison, WI – Dane County Coliseum – May 16, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Brutus Beefcake vs. Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) The Islanders vs. Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules (chain match) Also included 2 other matchesWWF @ Calgary, Alberta – Saddledome – May 16, 1987 Jerry Allen pinned Steve Lombardi Dick Slater pinned Tiger Chung Lee King Harley Race pinned Cpl. Kirchner Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match when, after both Neidhart and Dynamite escaped, Jimmy Hart slammed the cage door into Smith’s head, allowing Bret to escape the cageWWF @ Rockford, IL – Metro Centre – May 17, 1987 Brad Rheingans pinned Terry Gibbs Tom Magee defeated Jimmy Jack Funk via submission with a backbreaker Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Adrian Adonis) via submission with the sleeper Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue at 14:20WWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – May 17, 1987Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan on commentary; the scheduled Nick Kiniski vs. Iron Mike Sharpe match did not take place:Prime Time Wrestling – 6/1/87: Sam Houston pinned Johnny K-9 with a bulldog at 7:41Prime Time Wrestling – 6/8/87: Bob Orton Jr. pinned Frankie Lane with a running powerslam at 4:42Prime Time Wrestling – 6/1/87: Don Muraco pinned Lanny Poffo (sub. for Sivi Afi) with the tombstone at 6:50 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) at 7:33 with a roll up after Race missed a diving headbutt off the top; after the bout, Race attacked Hogan as he was posing and bloodied him; Jimmy Hart did guest commentary for the bout, subbing for Heenan; later on in the card, the champion returned ringside and challenged Race to a Texas Death Match for the following month’s card and if he couldn’t beat Race then he would quit pro wrestlingPrime Time Wrestling – 5/25/87: Outback Jack pinned Frenchy Martin with a bulldog at 4:21Prime Time Wrestling – 5/25/87: Nikolai Volkoff pinned Cpl. Kirchner at 13:05 with a backbreaker Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via submission with a bearhug; Billy Red Lyons did guest commentary for the bout alongside Gorilla MonsoonWWF @ Vancouver, British Columbia – PNE Coliseum – May 17, 1987 The Karate Kid & Pepe Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Dick Slater defeated Steve Lombardi SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee Kimchee (sub. for Killer Khan) defeated Jerry Allen Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Sika & Kamala WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match Randy Savage defeated Tito SantanaWWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – May 18, 1987The scheduled Dick Slater vs. Tiger Chung Lee match was cancelled The Karate Kid & Pepe Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Jerry Allen defeated Steve Lombardi Killer Khan defeated SD Jones Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Randy Savage pinned Tito Santana after hitting him with a foreign object WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Davenport, IA – Palmer Auditorium – May 18, 1987 Jimmy Jack Funk (sub. for Barry O) fought Tom Magee to a draw Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Candice Pardue & Velvet McIntyre Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Sivi Afi Nikolai Volkoff defeated Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Blackjack Mulligan) Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes in a chain matchWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – May 18, 1987 (16,800)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon, Bobby Heenan, & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary; Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine did not take place as advertised:Prime Time Wrestling -5/25/87: Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs with a bulldog at 7:53Prime Time Wrestling -5/25/87: Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Bob Orton Jr. & Don Muraco at 10:31 when Roma pinned Orton after Muraco accidentally reversed a small package, putting Roma on top of Orton for the pin; after the bout, Muraco & Orton attacked their opponents Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Koko B. Ware at 13:15 after Hart threw a foreign object to Davis who then hit Koko in the face with it (Best of the WWF Vol. 14)Prime Time Wrestling – 6/8/87: Lanny Poffo pinned Dave Barbie with a moonsault at 8:05 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) at 7:54 with a roll up after the challenger failed a diving headbutt off the top; after the bout, Race attacked a bloody Hogan with the title belt as the champion posed in the ring; later in the show, Hogan returned ringside and challenged Race to a no holds barred match with the stipulation being that if he couldn’t beat Race, he would quit wrestling Debbie Combs defeated WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah via count-out at 8:49 after sending the champion into the steel ring post with an atomic drop on the floor; after the bout, the challenger continued to attack the champion when Moolah reentered the ring and then posed with the title belt (Best of the WWF Vol. 13, The Women of the WWF) Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 16:09 when Ax, the illegal man, pinned Brunzell with a forearm to the back of the head as Brunzell had Smash in a roll up coverPrime Time Wrestling – 5/30/88: Ron Bass pinned Jose Luis Rivera at 9:37 with the Pedigree; prior to the bout, Bass had a verbal confrontation with Gorilla Monsoon, with Bass challenging Monsoon to fight him in the ring after Monsoon knocked his hat off Ken Patera (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at 9:56 when Hart interfered as Honky was caught in the bearhug; after the contest, Patera locked both Honky and Hart in the move at the same time; on commentary after the bout, Gorilla Monsoon said Patera had won the match via submission (Patera’s MSG return after a 2-year absence) (The Ken Patera Story)WWF @ Lexington, KY – Rupp Arena – May 19, 1987 George Steele vs. Kimchee Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Ron Bass vs. ? ? (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. the Honkytonk Man Also included 2 other matchesWWF @ Eugene, OR – Lane County Convention Center – May 19, 1987 (300)The 1st show held in Eugene WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Decatur, IL – Civic Center – May 19, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Jimmy Jack Funk (sub. for Barry O) Outback Jack vs. Frenchy Martin Iron Mike Sharpe vs. Sivi Afi Nikolai Volkoff vs. Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Blackjack Mulligan) Hercules vs. Billy Jack Haynes (chain match)5/20/87: A Memphis court judge ruled that due to Jerry Lawler’s lawsuit against the WWF for promoting Harley Race as “the King of Wrestling” Race could not use the nickname in Tennessee nor could he come to the ring wearing his crown and robe.WWF @ Portland, OR – Memorial Coliseum – May 20, 1987 The Karate Kid & Pepe Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Killer Khan defeated Jerry Allen Tiger Chung Lee pinned Dick Slater SD Jones defeated Steve Lombardi Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Randy Savage pinned Tito Santana WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – May 20, 1987 Ron Bass vs. Nick Kiniski Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows King Harley Race vs. Danny Spivey George Steele vs. Kimchee WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Debbie Combs Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis ? (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Springfield, OH – South High School – May 20, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Jimmy Jack Funk (sub. for Barry O) WWF Women’s Tag Team Champion Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Outback Jack vs. Frenchy Martin Iron Mike Sharpe vs. Sivi Afi Nikolai Volkoff vs. Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Blackjack Mulligan) Hercules vs. Billy Jack HaynesWWF @ Memphis, TN – Mid-South Coliseum – May 21, 1987 (700) George Steele vs. Kimchee Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Hillbilly Jim (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Spokane, WA – Coliseum – May 21, 1987 The Karate Kid & Pepe Gomez vs. Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Kamala & Sika Tito Santana vs. Randy Savage Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (steel cage match) Also included 3 other boutsWWF @ Meriden, CT – Platt High School Gym – May 21, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Outback Jack vs. Frenchy Martin Sivi Afi vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champion Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Cpl. Kirchner vs. Nikolai Volkoff Billy Jack Haynes vs. HerculesWWF @ Denver, CO – McNichols Arena – May 22, 1987 (2,500) Randy Morse defeated Steve Lombardi via disqualification The Karate Kid & Pepe Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Jerry Allen pinned Tiger Chung Lee Killer Khan defeated SD Jones Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Randy Savage pinned Tito Santana WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match when, after both Neidhart and Smith had escaped the cage, Neidhart slammed the cage door into Dynamite’s head, allowing Bret to escapeWWF @ Manchester, NH – JFK Coliseum – May 22, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Dave Barbie WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Debbie Combs Sivi Afi vs. Terry Gibbs King Harley Race vs. Cpl. Kirchner Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows George Steele vs. Danny DavisWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – May 22, 1987 (7,200) Lanny Poffo defeated Pete Doherty Sam Houston pinned Frenchy Martin Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Tony Garea WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik & Nikolai VolkoffWWF @ Hartford, CT – Civic Center – May 23, 1987 (11,000)Pete Doherty vs. Nick Kiniski did not take place as advertised Sam Houston defeated Frenchy Martin Ron Bass defeated Outback Jack Jim Duggan defeated the Iron Sheik WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Velvet McIntyre & Candice Pardue Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy SavageWWF @ Salt Lake City, UT – Salt Palace – May 23, 1987 (7,979) Jerry Allen pinned Steve Lombardi Killer Khan pinned SD Jones The Karate Kid & Pepe Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Tito Santana fought Butch Reed to a draw Tiger Chung Lee defeated Steve Gatorwolf WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Fitchburg, MA – George Wallace Civic Center – May 23, 1987 Included Danny Davis, Lanny Poffo, Nikolai Volkoff, Cpl. Kirchner, George Steele, & WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous MoolahWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – May 24, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi Ron Bass defeated SD Jones The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Brooklyn, NY – Canarsie High School Gym – May 24, 1987 (800) Cpl. Kirchner defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Tito Santana defeated Butch Reed Ken Patera & Jim Duggan defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron SheikWWF @ Peterborough, Ontario – Memorial Centre – May 24, 1987 Tiger Chung Lee vs. Frankie Lane Jerry Allen vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Sam Houston vs. Frenchy Martin Hercules vs. Billy Jack Haynes Jacques Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy SavageWWF @ Verdun, Quebec – Verdun Auditorium – May 25, 1987 (7,902) Jerry Allen pinned Jimmy Jack Funk at 17:00 with a sunset flip Frenchy Martin pinned Sam Houston B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Demolition at 10:36 Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a 20-minute time-limit draw Jim Duggan pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 6:18 Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau when Valentine pinned Jacques after Pat Patterson interfered Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat via count-outWWF @ Louisville, KY – Louisville Gardens – May 25, 1987 (2,000) Outback Jack pinned Steve Lombardi Ron Bass pinned SD Jones The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V; after the bout, the referee refused to let Beefcake cut Johnny V’s hair so Beefcake cut the referee’s hair instead WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match– 5/26/87: Jim Duggan and the Iron Sheik were arrested together on charges of drug possession after they were pulled over by police. Duggan was also charged with drinking and driving.WWF @ Flint, MI – IMA Sports Arena – May 26, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi Ron Bass defeated SD Jones The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V; after the bout, Beefcake cut some of the referee’s hair and was fined $1,000 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Asbury Park, NJ – Convention Hall – May 26, 1987 Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Sivi Afi Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Jim Duggan & George Steele defeated Nikolai Volkoff & the Iron Sheik when Duggan pinned Sheik (Duggan and Sheik’s final appearances for several months after being released following their arrest earlier this day on drug charges after being caught in a car togetherWWF @ Lake Placid, NY – Olympic Center – May 26, 1987 Jerry Allen defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Tiger Chung Lee defeated Tony Garea (sub. for Dick Slater) Sam Houston defeated Frenchy Martin Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a draw Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – May 27, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Steve Lombardi Ron Bass vs. SD Jones The Islanders vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake vs. Johnny V WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Also included a battle royal involving Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – May 27, 1987 Included WWF IC Champion Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Vineland, NJ – High School Gym – May 27, 1987 Nikolai Volkoff, Butch Reed, & ? (sub. for the Iron Sheik) vs. ?, ? & ?WWF @ Allentown, PA – Agricultural Hall – May 28, 1987 Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sivi Afi Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Tito Santana pinned Butch Reed George Steele (sub. for Jim Duggan) & Ken Patera defeated Killer Khan (sub. for the Iron Sheik) & Nikolai VolkoffWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – May 28, 1987 Tiger Chung Lee vs. Jerry Allen (sub. for Dick Slater) Lanny Poffo vs. Jimmy Jack Funk Sam Houston vs. Dave Barbie Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat vs. Randy SavageWWF @ Battle Creek, MI – Kellogg Center Arena – May 28, 1987 (2,311) Outback Jack defeated Steve Lombardi The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Ron Bass defeated SD Jones Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Pottstown, PA – Owen J. Roberts High School Gym – May 29, 1987 Paul Roma vs. Shadow #2 Bam Bam Bigelow vs. Sivi Afi Jim Powers vs. Shadow #1 Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs The Islanders vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Hercules vs. Billy Jack Haynes (chain match)WWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – May 29, 1987 (7,000) SD Jones defeated Dave Barbie at 2:57 Tiger Chung Lee pinned Sam Houston at 6:56 Lanny Poffo defeated Jimmy Jack Funk at 12:33 King Harley Race pinned Jerry Allen (sub. for Dick Slater) at 6:33 Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 13:38 George Steele (sub. for Jim Duggan) defeated Nikolai Volkoff via count-out at 6:22 Butch Reed pinned Tito Santana at 12:26 after Slick interfered WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Koko B. Ware (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated Kamala & the Honkytonk Man at 12:14 when Hogan pinned Kamala with the legdropWWF @ Winnipeg, Manitoba – Arena – May 29, 1987 Brad Rheingans defeated Rick Renslow Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo, Greg Valentine, & Johnny V WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid via disqualification WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ Johnstown, PA – Cambria County War Memorial – May 30, 1987 (1,942) Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Tony Garea at 7:51 with a splash Shadow #2 (Jose Luis Rivera) pinned Jim Powers at 14:03 with a headbutt after putting a foreign object inside his mask SD Jones pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 6:16 with a roll up Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 13:05 when Ax pinned Brunzell with a double axe handle from the middle turnbuckle as Brunzell had a sleeper applied on Smash Butch Reed fought Tito Santana to a 20-minute time-limit draw, immediately after Santana hit the flying forearm; after the match, Santana cleared Reed from the ring Paul Roma pinned Shadow #1 (Randy Colley) at 11:28 when the Shadow headbutted the turnbuckle, after Roma moved out of the way, after loading his mask with a foreign object Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match at 6:22 with his feet on the ropes; after the bout, Haynes applied the full nelson until several wrestlers came out and pulled him offWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – May 30, 1987 Lanny Poffo defeated Terry Gibbs Jerry Allen (sub. for Dick Slater) defeated Jimmy Jack Funk Sam Houston defeated Tiger Chung Lee The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Danny Davis defeated Koko B. Ware via count-out Kamala defeated George Steele via disqualification The Honkytonk Man defeated Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Jake Roberts) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – May 30, 1987 (3,000) Ron Bass defeated Outback Jack Hillbilly Jim defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V Ken Patera defeated Killer Khan (sub. for the Iron Sheik) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid; after the bout, the Midnight Rockers – Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty – came out and challenged the Harts to a title match WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage matchWWF @ California, PA – Hamer Hall – May 31, 1987 (2,225) Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Tony Garea at 8:46 Tama pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 10:28 Don Muraco pinned Haku at 12:18 SD Jones (sub. for Jim Brunzell) & B. Brian Blair defeated Demolition at 11:33 when Jones pinned Smash Hillbilly Jim defeated Iron Mike Sharpe at 10:51 WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – May 31, 1987 Jimmy Jack Funk defeated Jerry Allen Danny Davis defeated Lanny Poffo Butch Reed defeated Tito Santana; the match had a 30-minute time-limit after the two wrestled to a 20-minute draw at the previous card on 5/1 Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes Ken Patera & George Steele (sub. for Jim Duggan) defeated Killer Khan (sub. for the Iron Sheik) & Nikolai Volkoff Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V in an elimination matchWWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – May 31, 1987 (10,000) Brad Rheingans pinned Terry Gibbs Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Sam Houston pinned Steve Lombardi Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack King Harley Race pinned Koko B. Ware The Honkytonk Man pinned Cpl. Kirchner (sub. for Jake Roberts) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Kamala via disqualification when Harley Race interferedWWF @ Kitchener, Ontario – Memorial Auditorium – June 1, 1987Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Billy Red Lyons on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 6/29/87: Brad Rheingans pinned Terry Gibbs at 8:49 with a rolling cradle Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Paul Roma (sub. for Sivi Afi)Prime Time Wrestling – 6/29/87: Hillbilly Jim pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 8:10 after making Sharpe hit himself with his own loaded forearm; after the bout, Sharpe began arguing with the referee until he was sent out of the ring by an atomic drop from JimPrime Time Wrestling – 6/29/87: Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows at 13:15 when Roma scored the pin with a flying bodypress Danny Davis defeated George Steele via disqualificationPrime Time Wrestling – 7/20/87: Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & SD Jones (sub. for Jim Brunzell) at 9:44 when Smash pinned Jones after Ax hit a clothesline as Jones had a sleeper applied Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match at 8:45 by tying Haynes’ legs with the chain and putting his own feet on the ropes for leverage (Even More Unusual Matches)WWF @ Syracuse, NY – War Memorial – June 1, 1987 Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Johnny V, Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Ken Patera vs. ? (sub. for the Iron Sheik) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart ? (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – June 1, 1987 (2,000)Prior to being fired the previous week, the show had been sold on Jim Duggan headlining in his hometown King Harley Race vs. ? (sub. for Dick Slater) Ron Bass vs. Outback Jack Steve Lombardi defeated Sam Houston Randy Savage defeated Koko B. Ware The Islanders defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Kamala The Junkyard Dog (sub for Jim Duggan) pinned Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick)WWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – June 2, 1987 (14,000)WWF Superstars taping:Featured WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan as a guest of the Snake Pit, during which Killer Khan sprayed green mist into Hogan’s eyes; the segment later aired in select markets to promote local cards featuring Hogan vs. Khan Bam Bam Bigelow defeated an unknown Tom Magee defeated Jimmy Jack FunkInternational Wrestling Challenge: Ken Patera (sub. for Jim Duggan) pinned Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) with an elbow drop at 6:07 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Koko B. Ware (w/ Jake Roberts who Koko was a sub. for) defeated Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) & WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) at around the 14:30 mark when Hogan pinned Kamala with a bodyslam and legdrop after punching Honky, knocking him into the ropes and tying his arms in the ropes (Best of the WWF Vol. 13)6/6/87 – included Outback Jack as a guest of the Snake Pit (this segment was taped and aired in select markets in place of a Snake Pit with the Iron Sheik, who had just been fired):6/13/87 – included Hillbilly Jim & Little Beaver as guests of the Snake Pit in which they discussed what happened to Beaver at WrestleMania III; featured the fourth Special Report on the health of Superstar Billy Graham and his road to recovery; included footage from the film ‘Predator’, staring Jesse Ventura: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Johnny K-9 & Dusty Wolfe at 2:11 when Smith pinned Wolfe following a diving headbutt off the top The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Eric Cooper & SD Jones at 2:35 when Haku pinned Cooper following simultaneous diving headbutts The Junkyard Dog pinned Terry Gibbs at 1:43 with the powerslam (JYD’s return following WrestleMania) Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) defeated Scott Casey & Lanny Poffo at 2:48 when Bravo pinned Poffo with the side suplex The Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat to win the title at 3:53 by reversing an inside cradle and grabbing onto the bottom rope for leverage (Best of the WWF Vol. 13, History of the Intercontinental Championship) The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Silvano Sousa at 1:38 with an elbow drop from the middle turnbuckle; after the bout, as the show was coming to a close, the Honkytonk Man came out and thanked the crowd for their support, saying the IC belt was for them 6/20/87 – included Randy Savage & Miss Elizabeth as guests of the Snake Pit in which Savage said he was happy for the Honkytonk Man being the new IC Champion and that he wanted a shot at Hulk Hogan and the WWF World Title; featured an ‘Update’ segment with footage of the Honkytonk Man celebrating in his dressing room after winning the IC title the previous week, with Savage being the first to congratulate him; also in the dressing room to congratulate him were the Hart Foundation, Butch Reed, the Islanders, Danny Davis, and several others; included footage of the Jumping Bomb Angels wrestling in Japan; featured a fifth Special Report on the health of Superstar Billy Graham and his road to recovery; included more footage of Jesse Ventura in the film ‘Predator’: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) in a non-title match at 4:18 when Blair pinned Bret with a sunset flip following a mask switch, moments after Davis was escorted backstage by security for interfering George Steele defeated Al Navarro via submission with the flying hammerlock at 1:18 Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Rick Renslow & Dave Wagner at 2:52 when Zenk pinned Renslow with a missile dropkick as Martel held Renslow in the air Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Brian Costello at 1:42 with a kneedrop off the top Billy Jack Haynes defeated Steve Lombardi via submission with the full nelson at 1:44 Hercules, King Harley Race, King Kong Bundy, & Paul Orndorff (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Mario Mancini, Don Driggers, Jim Powers, & Paul Roma at 3:37 when Orndorff pinned Mancini with one foot on his chest after hitting the piledriver6/27/87 – included Bobby Heenan, Hercules, King Harley Race, King Kong Bundy, & Paul Orndorff as guests of the Snake Pit; featured an ‘Update’ segment in which Craig DeGeorge interviewed Slick & Butch Reed, with Reed claiming he was in better shape than Superstar Billy Graham and said he would watch the following week to see Graham in training; included the first vignette promoting the debut of ‘The Million $ Man’, in which Ted Dibiase received a paper cut from counting his money, had Virgil drive him to the nearest hospital, and then paid the receptionist with several hundred dollar bills to receive immediate medical attention; featured more footage of Jesse Ventura in the film ‘Predator’: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned David Stoudemire in a non-title match with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll at the 24-second mark; prior to the bout, Howard Finkel introduced Mr. T as the new enforcer of the WWF Koko B. Ware pinned Jose Estrada at 1:57 with the Ghostbuster The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Eric Cooper at 2:30 with an elbow drop from the middle turnbuckle; during the bout, Mr. T did guest commentary and confirmed that he was the new enforcer of the WWF Brutus Beefcake, Jacques, & Raymond Rougeau defeated Johnny K-9, Jimmy Jack Funk, & Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:03 when Raymond pinned K-9 following the top rope double team move from the Rougeaus; after the bout, the Rougeaus & Beefcake fought off Sharpe, with the Rougeaus holding him up and allowing Beefcake to cut some of his hair (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake) Ken Patera defeated Frankie Lane via submission with the bearhug at 1:39; after the match, the Heenan Family – who were watching the match from the aisle – attacked Patera and began whipping him with Bobby Heenan’s belt until several referees swarmed the ring (The Ken Patera Story) Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Jerry Allen & Lanny Poffo at 2:25 when Ax pinned Poffo following the Decapitation; after the bout, as the show was coming to a close, Ken Patera was shown backstage in the dressing room, alongside Billy Jack Haynes and Brutus Beefcake, attempting to recover from the attack earlier in the showWWF @ Rochester, NY – War Memorial – June 3, 1987 (8,150)Wrestling Challenge taping: Bam Bam Bigelow defeated an unknown The Midnight Rockers (Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) defeated Jose Estrada & Jimmy Jack Funk (Michaels & Jannetty’s in-ring debut)WWF Superstars (French version): Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via count-out at 10:21 when Martel was able to get back in the ring just before the 10-count after the champions were pushed together when both teams were brawling on the floorAll American Wrestling – 6/14/87: Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 6:54 by hitting Sharpe with his own forearm after Sharpe became distracted from chasing Beaver around ringsideWrestling Spotlight – 6/27/87: Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) defeated Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Jim Duggan) via disqualification at 4:33 after Haynes stole Slick’s cane, broke it over Volkoff’s back, and chased both men backstage6/14/87 – included the Ricky Steamboat / Honkytonk Man match from the 6/13/87 Superstars, shown in full: Kamala & Sika defeated Don Driggers & Mario Mancini when Kamala pinned Mancini with a splash at 2:21 Brutus Beefcake defeated Dusty Wolfe at 2:29 with the sleeper Killer Khan pinned Eric Cooper at 1:56 The Junkyard Dog pinned Steve Lombardi with a running powerslam at 2:11 Hillbilly Jim, SD Jones, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Iron Mike Sharpe, Bob Orton Jr., & Don Muraco at 3:25 after Muraco accidentally hit Orton6/21/87: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man pinned Paul Roma with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll at 1:57 Ken Patera defeated Rick Renslow at 2:12 via submission with a bearhug The Islanders defeated Scott Casey & Lanny Poffo at 3:27 following a double headbutt on Poffo Koko B. Ware pinned Johnny K-9 at 2:10 with the Ghostbuster One Man Gang pinned Brian Costello at 1:53 with the front suplex Demolition defeated Jim Powers & Jerry Allen at 3:45 with the Decapitation6/28/87: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned David Stoudemire at the 35-second mark with the flying elbowsmash; prior to the match, Mr. T was introduced as the new enforcer of the WWF Raymond Rougeau (w/ Jacques Rougeau) fought Greg Valentine (w/ Dino Bravo) to a double disqualification at 3:12 after both parnters interfered Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Terry Gibbs & Jimmy Jack Funk at 3:47 when Zenk pinned Gibbs with a dropkick off the top King Harley Race, Hercules, & Paul Orndorff (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated three unknowns at 2:12 following a piledriver from Orndorff Ron Bass pinned Frankie Lane at 2:35Dark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) with a roll up after the challenger missed the flying elbowsmash (History of the WWF Heavyweight Championship)– 6/87: Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty were fired following a party after the taping in Rochester, NY.WWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – June 4, 1987 (4,341) Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match Demolition fought Rick Martel & Tom Zenk to a 20-minute draw Sika pinned Cpl. Kirchner Ron Bass pinned Scott Casey Butch Reed pinned Lanny Poffo WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Debbie Combs Ken Patera pinned King Harley Race Koko B. Ware (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man with a roll up; Honky’s title win had yet to air thus he was not recognized as the WWF IC Champion at the time of the matchWWF @ Poughkeepsie, NY – Mid-Hudson Civic Center – June 4, 1987 Included Randy Savage, B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – June 4, 1987 Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine George Steele vs. Danny Davis Nikolai Volkoff vs. ? (sub. for Jim Duggan) Also included the Islanders & Jacques & Raymond RougeauWWF @ Oklahoma City, OK – State Fair Arena – June 5, 1987Ted Dibiase defeated Killer Khan; prior to the bout, Dibiase got on the mic, saying he was having a tryout match and needed the fans support as he had to win the match to earn a WWF contract Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Outback Jack vs. Ron Bass Lord Littlebrook & Cowboy Lang vs. Karate Kid & Little Cocoa Butch Reed vs. Tito Santana Nikolai Volkoff vs. the Junkyard Dog (sub. for Jim Duggan)WWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – June 5, 1987 (3,000) Steve Lombardi defeated Sivi Afi at 8:59 Tiger Chung Lee defeated Brad Rheingans at 6:27 George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out at 9:01 Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Johnny V, Dino Bravo, & Greg Valentine at 14:51 The Islanders defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 21:16 SD Jones defeated Pete Doherty at 5:19 Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat via disqualification at 10:42 in a lumberjack matchWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – June 5, 1987 (8,700) Lanny Poffo pinned Frenchy Martin at 8:58 Ron Bass pinned Scott Casey at 7:23 Sika pinned Cpl. Kirchner at 7:45 Ken Patera pinned King Harley Race at 7:14 WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs Tom Zenk & Rick Martel defeated Demolition via disqualification at 9:30 Hercules pinned Billy Jack Haynes in a chain match at 6:45 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man with the legdrop at 7:37; since Honky’s title win had not aired, he did not come to the ring with the IC title nor was he introduced as championWWF @ Tulsa, OK – Expo Square – June 6, 1987 Included Jake RobertsWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – June 6, 1987 Ron Bass defeated Scott Casey Sika defeated Cpl. Kirchner WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs The Islanders defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a draw Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat defeated Randy Savage in a steel cage match; since Steamboat’s loss of the title to the Honkytonk Man on 6/2 had not aired, Steamboat was still in possession of the titleWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – June 6, 1987 (10,000)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon, Bobby Heenan, & Craig DeGeorge on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 6/29/87: Jose Estrada (sub. for Jimmy Jack Funk) pinned Sivi Afi after reversing a bodypress at 9:45 Tom Zenk & Rick Martel defeated Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 12:43 when Martel pinned Ax with a crossbody; after the bout, Craig DeGeorge conducted a ringside interview with Zenk & MartelPrime Time Wrestling – 7/6/87: SD Jones pinned Pete Doherty at 6:42 after throwing him off the top rope WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Koko B. Ware (sub. for Jake Roberts) at 9:32 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; Honky did not come out with the title nor was he announced as champion as the title change had not yet aired on TVPrime Time Wrestling – 7/6/87: Tiger Chung Lee pinned Brad Rheingans at 5:51 with the tombstone George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out when Davis left ringside after sustaining nine consecutive slams (George ‘The Animal’ Steele)Prime Time Wrestling – 6/29/87: Lanny Poffo pinned Frenchy Martin at 4:42 with a moonsault; during the bout, Bobby Heenan left the commentary table WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race in a Texas Death Match at 9:46 after hitting him with the title belt after Race accidentally delivered a diving headubtt onto the belt (Even More Unusual Matches)WWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – June 7, 1987 (4,500) Frenchy Martin pinned Sivi Afi Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V Billy Jack Haynes defeated Danny Davis via disqualification when Hercules interfered Hercules defeated WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat via count-out; though he had already lost the title, Steamboat was recognized as the champion and wore the belt to the ring since the title change had not aired WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs Rick Rude pinned Jose Estrada with a slingshot suplex Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – June 7, 1987Featured Paul Boesch & Peter Birkholz on commentary; included backstage interviews with Jake Roberts, the Junkyard Dog, the Islanders, Tito Santana and his mother, Sam Houston & Ted Dibiase, the One Man Gang, Ron Bass, & Slick The Islanders defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Tama pinned Roma with the splash off the top Lord Littlebrook & Cowboy Lang defeated Karate Chris & Little Cocoa when Lang pinned Cocoa after Littlebrook placed his partner on top after a mid-ring collision George Steele defeated Tiger Chung LeeInternational Wrestling Challenge: Koko B. Ware pinned the Red Demon with the Ghostbuster at 5:08 Ron Bass defeated Scott CaseyInternational Wrestling Challenge: Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs with a bulldog at 7:22 Tito Santana defeated Killer Khan via disqualification at 9:30 when Khan picked Santana up in a back suplex and then dropped him crotch-first across the top rope (Best of the WWF Vol. 14)Houston Wrestling – 6/87: The One Man Gang pinned Ted Dibiase at 9:32 with his feet on the ropes for leverage; after the match, Sam Houston came out to dispute the call, eventually helping Dibiase clear Gang from the ring with a double dropkick The Junkyard Dog (sub. for Jim Duggan) (w/ Jake Roberts) defeated Nikolai VolkoffWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – June 7, 1987 (10,000) Lanny Poffo defeated Johnny K-9 Sika defeated Brad Rheingans Hillbilly Jim pinned Iron Mike Sharpe after hitting him with his own forearm Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. at around the 14-minute mark when Zenk pinned Orton with a sunset flip from the apron; after the bout, Muraco & Orton argued until finally raising each other’s hands Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned Butch Reed (w/ Bobby Heenan) at 5:50 with a small package WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) in a Texas Death match at 9:51 after hitting him with the title belt after Race accidentally delivered a diving headbutt onto the beltWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – June 8, 1987 (3,500) Rick Rude defeated Dusty Wolfe Scott Casey pinned Jose Estrada Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V Ken Patera defeated Paul Orndorff (sub. for King Harley Race) via disqualification when Hercules interfered Hercules defeated WWF IC Champion Ricky Steamboat via count-out; though he had already lost the title, Steamboat was recognized as the champion and wore the belt to the ring since the title change had not aired WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs Frenchy Martin pinned Sivi Afi Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – June 8, 1987 (4,000) Koko B. Ware won a $50,000 20-man bunkhouse battle royal; other participants included: Butch Reed, Outback Jack, Killer Khan, Cpl. Kirchner, Rick Martel, Tom Zenk, Bob Orton Jr., Don Muraco, Koko B. Ware, Iron Mike Sharpe, the One Man Gang, SD Jones, the Islanders, Pedro Morales, Tito Santana, Ron Bass, Lanny Poffo, Sika, & Hillbilly Jim Danny Davis defeated George Steele via count-out Butch Reed defeated Outback Jack Killer Khan defeated Cpl. Kirchner Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Bob Orton Jr. & Don Muraco Koko B. Ware defeated Iron Mike Sharpe The One Man Gang defeated SD Jones The Islanders defeated Pedro Morales & Tito Santana Ron Bass defeated Lanny PoffoWWF @ San Francisco, CA – Cow Palace – June 9, 1987 (2,390) Sivi Afi defeated Frenchy Martin Scott Casey defeated Jose Estrada Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V Hercules defeated Ken Patera Paul Orndorff (sub. for King Harley Race) defeated Ricky Steamboat via count-out WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs Rick Rude defeated Dusty Wolfe Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Salisbury, MD – Wicomico Youth & Civic Center – June 9, 1987 Iron Mike Sharpe vs. Jerry Allen The Islanders defeated SD Jones & Lanny Poffo Koko B. Ware defeated Butch Reed Ron Bass defeated Hillbilly Jim Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. George Steele defeated Danny DavisWWF @ Ft. Myers, FL – Civic Center – June 10, 1987 Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. vs. Rick Martel & Tom Zenk Ron Bass vs. Hillbilly Jim Butch Reed vs. George Steele Danny Davis vs. Koko B. Ware Randy Savage vs. the Honkytonk Man Also included the IslandersWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – June 10, 1987 (3,500) Sivi Afi defeated Frenchy Martin Scott Casey defeated Jose Estrada Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V Hercules defeated Ken Patera Paul Orndorff (sub. for King Harley Race) defeated Ricky Steamboat via count-out WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs Rick Rude defeated Dusty Wolfe Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Cedar Rapids, IA – Five Seasons Center – June 11, 1987 WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Debbie Combs Scott Casey vs. Jose Estrada Sivi Afi vs. Frenchy Martin Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V Ken Patera vs. HerculesWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – June 11, 1987 Jerry Allen defeated Iron Mike Sharpe The Islanders defeated SD Jones & Lanny Poffo Ron Bass defeated Hillbilly Jim Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. George Steele defeated Butch Reed Danny Davis defeated Koko B. Ware Randy Savage defeated the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Kansas City, MO – Kemper Arena – June 12, 1987This card was cancelled due to a poor advance on ticket salesWWF @ Des Moines, IA – Veterans Memorial Auditorium – June 12, 1987 (1,000) WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah vs. Debbie Combs Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Brutus Beefcake, Jacques, & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V Ken Patera vs. King Harley Race Hercules vs. Billy Jack Haynes (chain match) plus 2 other matchesWWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – June 12, 1987 (5,831) SD Jones defeated Iron Mike Sharpe The Islanders defeated Lanny Poffo & Jerry Allen Danny Davis defeated George Steele via count-out Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Ron Bass pinned Hillbilly Jim Koko B. Ware defeated Butch Reed via disqualification Randy Savage pinned the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – June 13, 1987 (2,218) SD Jones defeated the Red Demon The Islanders defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Ken Patera defeated Hercules via count-out Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.; after the bout, Muraco and Orton began fighting with each other Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V in an elimination match Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Outback Jack Paul Orndorff pinned the Junkyard Dog with his feet on the ropes for leverageWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – June 13, 1987 (5,300) Frenchy Martin pinned Sivi Afi Billy Jack Haynes pinned Butch Reed with a backslide Rick Rude defeated Dusty Wolfe WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race at 8:57 Hillbilly Jim (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned the Honkytonk Man after Jake Roberts interfered; Honkytonk was not recognized as the WWF IC Champion since the title change didn’t air in the area until the following morning Scott Casey pinned Jose Estrada George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – June 14, 1987 (14,246)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary; included Monsoon conducting backstage interviews with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Outback Jack about their matches later in the card; included Monsoon interviewing NY Yankees player Dave Winfield at ringside about being in attendance for the show:Prime Time Wrestling – 6/22/87: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Shadows at 18:56 when Martel scored the pin with a crossbody; Bobby Heenan did guest commentary for the match and after the bout, Heenan left the commentary table and confronted Martel & Zenk, saying they wouldn’t have won the match had they been wrestling the Islanders; Martel then told Heenan to bring the Islanders out then and there but as Haku & Tama tried to come to the ring, they were held back by officials and referees; once the Islanders had being taken out, Martel asked Heenan to sign the Islanders a contract to face them as they wouldn’t be able to read or write to do it themselves, with Heenan saying they could have them anytime; later in the card a match was confirmed between the two teams for the following month’s card during a backstage interview by Lord Afred Hayes with Martel & ZenkPrime Time Wrestling – 8/10/87: Hercules fought Billy Jack Haynes to a 20-minute time-limit draw at 22:55Prime Time Wrestling – 6/22/87: The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 19:02 when Tama pinned Powers with a splash off the top after a backbreaker from Haku (Best of the WWF Vol. 13) Paul Orndorff (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned the Junkyard Dog at 9:47 after dropping JYD across the top rope WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) in a Texas Death Match at 9:56 after hitting him with the title belt after Race accidentally delivered a diving headubtt onto the belt (Even More Unusual Matches)Prime Time Wrestling – 7/13/87: Outback Jack pinned Jose Estrada with a bulldog at 4:47Prime Time Wrestling – 6/22/87: Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Koko B. Ware), Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid defeated Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart at 18:08 when Dynamite pinned Bret with a diving headbutt after being thrown by SmithWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – June 14, 1987 Brad Rheingans vs. Frenchy Martin Rick Rude vs. Scott Casey Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau (Texas Tornado match) WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Sika vs. Cpl. Kirchner Randy Savage vs. Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Pine Bluff, AR – Convention Center – June 14, 1987 Included Nikolai VolkoffWWF @ Shreveport, LA – Hirsch Memorial Coliseum – June 15, 1987Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Jerry Allen Tom Magee pinned Terry Gibbs Sam Houston pinned Tiger Chung Lee with a bulldog WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Debbie Combs The Dingo Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi The One Man Gang pinned Ted Dibiase Tito Santana defeated Killer Khan via disqualification The Junkyard Dog (sub. for Jim Duggan) pinned Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) after Slick accidentally hit Volkoff with his caneWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – June 15, 1987 (2,400) WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Brad Rheinghans defeated Frenchy Martin Sika defeated Cpl. Kirchner Rick Rude defeated Scott Casey Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Randy Savage defeated Ricky Steamboat Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-outWWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Convention Center – June 15, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Jose Estrada Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes via disqualification Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Paul Roma & Jim Powers (sub. for Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) defeated the Shadows Little Coco & Karate Chris Dube defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage matchWWF @ Albuquerque, NM – Tingley Coliseum – June 16, 1987 (1,705) Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Rick Rude pinned Scott Casey Sika pinned Cpl. Kirchner Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Bruno Sammartino (w/ Jake Roberts who he was a sub. for) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out when the champion ran backstage after Roberts took Damien out of the snake bag Randy Savage pinned Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – June 16, 1987 Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (steel cage match)WWF @ Huntsville, AL – Von Braun Civic Center – June 17, 1987 Outback Jack pinned Jose Estrada Paul Roma & Jim Powers (sub. for Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) defeated the Shadows Danny Davis pinned Koko B. Ware after hitting him with a foreign object Little Coco & Karate Chris Dube defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes via disqualification when Haynes threw the referee across the ring; after the bout, both men brawled back to the locker room WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match with Bret escaping the cage to win the match after Neidhart and one of the Bulldogs had already leftWWF @ El Paso, TX – Civic Center – June 17, 1987 Rick Rude vs. Scott Casey Brad Rheingans vs. Frenchy Martin WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Sika vs. Cpl. Kirchner Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Randy Savage vs. Ricky Steamboat Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – June 17, 1987Held in conjunction with Summer Celebration 87 Dusty Wolfe & Tom Sharpe vs. the Alaskans Lanny Poffo vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Sivi Afi vs. Bob Orton Jr. Also included a womens and midget matchWWF @ Wichita Falls, TX – Auditorium – June 17, 1987 (600) Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Jerry Allen Tom Magee pinned Terry Gibbs The Dingo Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi (Warrior’s debut) Sam Houston pinned Tiger Chung Lee WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Debbie Combs The One Man Gang pinned Ted Dibiase Tito Santana pinned Killer Khan The Junkyard Dog pinned Nikolai VolkoffWWF @ Birmingham, AL – Boutwell Auditorium – June 18, 1987 (1,501) Rick Rude vs. Scott Casey Brad Rheingans vs. Frenchy Martin WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Sika vs. Cpl. Kirchner Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Bruno Sammartino (w/ Jake Roberts who he was a sub. for) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out in a non-title match Randy Savage defeated Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Montgomery, AL – Garrett Coliseum – June 18, 1987 (2,115) Little Coco & Karate Chris Dube vs. Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Outback Jack vs. Jose Estrada Paul Roma & Jim Powers (sub. for Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) vs. the Shadows Danny Davis vs. Koko B. Ware Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid (steel cage match)WWF @ Odessa, TX – Ector County Coliseum – June 18, 1987 Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Jerry Allen Tom Magee defeated Terry Gibbs Sam Houston defeated Tiger Chung Lee WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs The Dingo Warrior defeated Steve Lombardi The One Man Gang pinned Ted Dibiase Killer Khan defeated Tito Santana The Junkyard Dog defeated Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick)WWF @ Atlanta, GA – Omni – June 19, 1987 (5,345) Sika pinned Scott Casey Rick Rude pinned Cpl. Kirchner Danny Davis pinned Koko B. Ware after hitting him with a foreign object Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V in an elimination match at around the 16-minute mark Paul Orndorff defeated George Steele via disqualification at around the 5-minute mark WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned KamalaWWF @ Winston-Salem, NC – Memorial Coliseum – June 19, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Jose Estrada Tom Magee defeated Steve Lombardi Jerry Allen pinned Terry Gibbs with a sunset flip out of the corner Paul Roma & Jim Powers (sub. for Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) defeated the Shadows WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Debbie Combs King Harley Race & Hercules defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Tito Santana when Race pinned Santana after Hercules reversed Santana’s small package behind the referee’s back Randy Savage pinned Ricky Steamboat by grabbing the tights for leverage after the momentum of a crossbody off the top by Steamboat put Savage on top Jake Roberts pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title match with the DDTWWF @ Peoria, IL – Civic Center – June 19, 1987 Tom Magee vs. ? (sub. for Jimmy Jack Funk) WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Brad Rheingans vs. Frenchy Martin Bam Bam Bigelow vs. Lanny Poffo The Junkyard Dog vs. Nikolai Volkoff Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. King Kong Bundy WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Augusta, GA – Civic Center – June 20, 1987 Included Randy SavageWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – June 20, 1987 Tom Magee defeated Tiger Chung Lee (sub. for Jimmy Jack Funk) Brad Rheingans defeated Frenchy Martin WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Lanny Poffo The Junkyard Dog defeated Nikolai Volkoff King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim via disqualification when Little Beaver interfered Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via count-outWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – June 20, 1987 (7,163)According to the 6/10/87 edition of the Daily Tribune (Royal Oak, MI), a match between Bruno Sammartino and Jesse Ventura was scheduled and was deemed Ventura’s “Farewell Match”Televised on the PRISM Network – included Dick Graham on commentary with Gorilla Monsoon for the first 5 matches and with Craig DeGeorge for the remainder of the show: Jerry Allen pinned Terry Gibbs at 10:53 with a sunset flipPrime Time Wrestling – 7/20/87: Outback Jack pinned Jose Estrada with a bulldog at 8:24Prime Time Wrestling – 7/20/87: Paul Roma & Jim Powers (sub. for Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) defeated the Shadows at 14:28 when Roma made the pin with a sunset flip off the top rope (High Flyers) Tito Santana defeated Ron Bass via disqualification at 11:20 after Bass shoved the referee into Santana who had just applied the figure-4Prime Time Wrestling – 7/13/87: Paul Orndorff (sub. for the Iron Sheik) fought Billy Jack Haynes to a time-limit draw at 21:01; the bell rang just as Haynes applied the full nelson WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah pinned Debbie Combs at 6:37 with a roll over after avoiding a dropkick Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) pinned Ricky Steamboat at 6:01 with a splash after throwing Steamboat off the top, moments after Steamboat kicked away an interfering Kimchee (Best of the WWF Vol. 12) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Ken Patera defeated King Harley Race & Hercules at 11:24 when Hogan pinned Race following a double clothesline (The Ken Patera Story)WWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – June 21, 1987 (3,836) Karate Chris Dube & Little Coco defeated Lord Littlebrook & Cowboy Lang Tom Magee pinned Tiger Chung Lee Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Lanny Poffo The Junkyard Dog pinned Nikolai Volkoff WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jake Roberts via disqualificationWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – June 21, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Scott Casey vs. Steve Lombardi Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. King Kong Bundy Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo George Steele vs. Danny Davis Ricky Steamboat vs. KamalaWWF @ Lexington, KY – Rupp Arena – June 22, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose Ron Bass vs. Outback Jack Scott Casey vs. Steve Lombardi Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Hillbilly Jim vs. King Kong Bundy Ricky Steamboat vs. KamalaWWF @ Erie, PA – Civic Center – June 22, 1987 (3,110) Tom Magee defeated Tiger Chung Lee (sub. for Jimmy Jack Funk) at 7:06 Little Coco & Karate Chris Dube defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo at 13:52 Brad Rheingans defeated Frenchy Martin at 10:33 WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jake Roberts via disqualification at 10:22 Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Lanny Poffo at 8:10 The Junkyard Dog (sub. for Jim Duggan) defeated Nikolai Volkoff at 10:28 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match at 8:46WWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – June 22, 1987 (3,700) Jerry Allen pinned Terry Gibbs Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Danny Davis pinned George Steele Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated King Harley Race & Hercules when Patera pinned Race Koko B. Ware pinned Don Muraco Randy Savage pinned Tito SantanaWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – June 23, 1987 (10,555; sell out)WWF Superstars taping:According to Hitman: My Real Life in the Cartoon World of Wrestling, it was prior to the taping that the WWF held its first drug testing; Jake Roberts and B. Brian Blair were both suspended for testing positive for cocaine; Ricky Steamboat did not appear as advertised Rick Rude defeated Jerry Allen The Dingo Warrior pinned Jose Estrada with a running clothesline at 6:14 (WWE: Unreleased: 1986-1995) Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V at 11:37 when Johnny submitted to Beefcake’s sleeper after all three heels collided in the ring and the Rougeaus dropkicked the New Dream Team to the floor; after the bout, Beefcake cut and spraypainted Johnny’s hair as the Rougeaus prevented Valentine & Bravo from getting back in the ring (Best of the WWF Vol. 14) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated King Harley RacePrime Time Wrestling – 7/13/87: The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Scott Casey & Jim Powers at 5:35 when Haku pinned Powers after diving headbutts from both IslandersPrime Time Wrestling – 8/3/87 – included Randy Savage & Miss Elizabeth as guests of the Snake Pit 7/4/87 – included B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell as guests of the Snake Pit; featured the second Ted Dibiase vignette where Dibiase paid off a swimming pool attendant to clear the public pool full of children so that Dibiase could use it all to himself; included footage of Superstar Billy Graham training for his comeback, with Butch Reed & Slick commenting on the footage and Reed saying he wasn’t impressed; featured brief footage of the match between the Jumping Bomb Angels and the Glamour Girls from 6/24 in Louisville: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Sonny Rogers at 1:41 with one foot after hitting the flying elbowsmash Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated Jim Powers & Mario Mancini at 1:55 when Kamala pinned Mancini with a splash following the Samoan Drop from Sika; during the bout, an insert promo from Fuji was shown in which he claimed he would soon have a new wrestler by the name of ‘Bam Bam’ Tito Santana pinned Terry Gibbs at 2:42 with the flying forearm Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Outback Jack at 2:10 with a flying kneedrop after spitting green mist into his opponent’s face Brutus Beefcake defeated Chris Curtis via submission with the sleeper at 1:11 The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Frankie DeFalco & SD Jones at 2:29 when Tama pinned DeFalco with a splash off the top; during the bout, an insert promo by Heenan was shown where he also claimed he would have a new wrestler known as ‘Bam Bam’7/11/87 – included an ‘Update’ segment which showed Ted Dibiase appearing at a house show, where he was shown throwing money into the crowd; featured a ‘Special Report’ focusing on Danny Davis, showing reasons that led to the suspension of Davis as a referee; included footage of Superstar Billy Graham posing, with a response from Butch Reed & Slick saying that next week Reed would do his own posing routine; featured more footage from ‘Predator’, starring Jesse Ventura: Ken Patera defeated Iron Mike Sharpe via submission with the bearhug at 2:46 Hercules, King Kong Bundy, & King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Mario Mancini, Jim Evans, & Paul Roma at 2:23 when Bundy pinned Evans with an elbow drop following the Avalanche in the corner; during the bout, an insert promo from Heenan was shown in which he claimed Mr. Fuji made a mistake last week and it was definately Heenan who would be signing ‘Bam Bam’ Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated Terry Gibbs & Dusty Wolfe at 2:56 when Zenk pinned Wolfe with a missile dropkick off the top as Martel held Wolfe in the air Jake Roberts pinned Brian Costello at 1:45 with the DDT Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Sivi Afi & Lanny Poffo at 3:32 when Poffo submitted to Valentine’s figure-4; during the bout, an insert promo from Johnny V was shown in which he claimed he would be the one to manage ‘Bam Bam’; after the bout, Brutus Beefcake – who did guest commentary for the contest – came to the ring and cut some of Valentine’s hair as he still had the figure-4 applied WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Omar Atlas in a non-title match at 1:41 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; during the bout, an insert promo by Hart was shown in which he claimed he would be the one to manage ‘Bam Bam’ and he would have exclusive footage of him the following week 7/18/87 – in some select markets this episode included WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan as a guest of the Snake Pit, which was interrupted by Killer Khan & Mr. Fuji, with Khan spitting the green mist in Hogan’s eyes; featured Mr. T as a guest of the Snake Pit, which was interrupted by Danny Davis, with Roberts eventually scaring Davis from the set with Damien; included an ‘Update’ segment, showing Ted Dibiase going into a restaurant where he paid off someone to buy a seat without having to wait in line like everyone else; featured footage of Butch Reed posing, as a response to Superstar Billy Graham’s posing the previous week; included comments from Jimmy Hart, where he showed brief footage of ‘Bam Bam’; featured more footage of the film ‘Predator’, starring Jesse Ventura: The Junkyard Dog, Hillbilly Jim, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., & Ron Bass via count-out at 2:53 when Orton & Muraco began pushing one another on the floor The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Sonny Rogers at 1:20 with the front suplex; during the bout, an insert promo by Slick was shown where he also claimed he would have a new wrestler by the name of ‘Bam Bam’ Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Shadows at 2:57 when Raymond scored the pin following a double team move off the top Demolition defeated Scott Casey & Omar Atlas at 2:35 when Ax pinned Atlas following the Decapitation; during the bout, an insert promo by Mr. Fuji was shown in which he stated all the other managers were wrong and it would be he who would have ‘Bam Bam’ in his stable Brutus Beefcake defeated Pete Sanchez via submission with the sleeper at 1:06 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Mike Richards & Jerry Allen at 2:22 when Bret pinned Richards following the Hart Attack; after the bout, the champions hit the move a second time on RichardsWWF @ Louisville, KY – Louisville Gardens – June 24, 1987 (5,761; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping: Rick Rude defeated Jerry Allen The Dingo Warrior defeated an unknown Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike SharpePrime Time Wrestling – 7/13/87: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated George Steele (sub. for Ricky Steamboat) via count-out at 3:36 after Steele chased Hart backstage; after the bout, Steele returned to the ring, attacked the champion with his own guitar, and then smashed itPrime Time Wrestling – 7/20/87: The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai in a non-title match at 11:09 when Kai was pinned with a sunset flip from the middle turnbuckle7/5/87 – included an ‘Special Report’ segment, showing Ted Dibiase going into a restaurant where he paid off someone to buy a seat without having to wait in line like everyone else; included Craig DeGeorge interviewing Danny Davis, who was upset over the announcement that Mr. T would be the new enforcer in the WWF; included footage of Superstar Billy Graham training for his comeback, with Butch Reed & Slick commenting on the footage and Reed saying he wasn’t impressed; included DeGeorge interviewing the British Bulldogs, who said that Matilda would guide them back to the tag team titles; included the Ken Patera / Frankie Lane match from the 6/27 Superstars, shown in full with the aftermath; featured footage from ‘Predator’, starring Jesse Ventura: Jake Roberts pinned Tony Leone at 1:27 with the DDT; during the bout, Bobby Heenan claimed on commentary that he had signed Bam Bam Bigelow WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jim Powers at 1:38 in a non-title match with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; during the bout, an insert promo by Hart was shown in which he claimed he would be the one to manage Bam Bam Bigelow Brutus Beefcake defeated Frank DeFalco via submission at 1:46 with the sleeper; after the bout, Beefcake cut some of his opponent’s hair before dyeing it red Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated SD Jones & Paul Roma at 2:21 when Ax pinned Roma following the Decapitation; during the bout, an insert promo by Fuji was shown in which he claimed he would be the one to manage Bam Bam Bigelow Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Mike Richards at 3:24 with the flying kneedrop after spitting green mist in his opponent’s face7/12/87 – included an ‘Special Report’ segment, focusing on Killer Khan, with footage of him using the green mist against his opponents on the 7/4 Superstars and 7/5 Challenge; included footage of Superstar Billy Graham posing, with a response from Butch Reed & Slick saying that next week Reed would do his own posing routine; included Craig DeGeorge interviewing Bobby Heenan, King Harley Race, King Kong Bundy, & Hercules who joked and laughed about their attack on Ken Patera 2 weeks earlier; included footage of Ted Dibiase appearing at a house show, where he was shown throwing money into the crowd: The Junkyard Dog pinned Brian Costello with the powerslam at 1:53 The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jerry Allen & Mario Mancini at 2:42 when Haku pinned Mancini after diving headbutts from both Islanders; during the bout, Johnny V claimed on commentary that he was the one who had signed Bam Bam Bigelow B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. via disqualification at 4:16 after Orton accidentally punched the referee when Brunzell moved out of the way; after the bout, the Bees cleared their opponents out of the ring with double dropkicks The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Jim Evans at 1:08 with the front suplex; during the bout, an insert promo by Slick was shown in which he claimed he would be the one to manage Bam Bam Bigelow Hillbilly Jim, Tito Santana, & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Tiger Chung Lee, Terry Gibbs, & Chris Curtis at 2:39 when Santana pinned Curtis with the flying forearm WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Cpl. Kirchner & Omar Atlas at 3:15 when Bret pinned Atlas following the Hart Attack7/19/87: Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated Sonny Rogers & Lanny Poffo at 1:22 when Kamala pinned Rogers with a splash WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Scott Casey at 2:13 in a non-title match with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Shadows at 4:11 when Martel scored the pin with a flying crossbody Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Jerry Allen & an unknown at 3:25 when Valentine forced a submission from Allen with the figure-4 Jake Roberts pinned Dusty Wolf at 1:29 with the DDT Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Sivi Afi at 2:17 with the flying elbow dropDark matches: Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Ken Patera defeated King Harley Race & Hercules when Hogan pinned Race at the 7-minute markWWF @ Jackson, MS – State Fair Coliseum – June 25, 1987 (2,086) Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sam Houston Jim Brunzell pinned Frenchy Martin (sub. for Tiger Chung Lee) B. Brian Blair pinned Ron Bass SD Jones pinned Mr. Fuji (sub. for King Harley Race) Randy Savage pinned Billy Jack Haynes Ted Dibiase pinned the One Man Gang Kamala defeated Jake Roberts via count-out WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Rick Martel & Tom ZenkWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – June 25, 1987 (3,016) Sivi Afi defeated Shadow #2 Bob Orton Jr. defeated Lanny Poffo Don Muraco defeated Outback Jack King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim The Junkyard Dog defeated Butch Reed The Islanders defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Ken Patera defeated Hercules WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb AngelsWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – June 25, 1987 Included Tito SantanaWWF @ Flint, MI – IMA Sports Arena – June 26, 1987 Cpl. Kirchner vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Demolition vs. Paul Roma & Jim Powers George Steele vs. Killer Khan Tito Santana vs. Nikolai Volkoff Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, & Johnny V WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Jake RobertsWWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – June 26, 1987 (3,666; the lowest drawing card at the arena in 9 years) Bob Orton Jr. pinned Lanny Poffo at 7:03 Don Muraco pinned Outback Jack at 9:30 The Junkyard Dog defeated Butch Reed via disqualification at 8:39 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels at 12:33 when Kai pinned Noriyo Tateno following a piledriver King Kong Bundy pinned Hillbilly Jim at 7:17 Ken Patera pinned Hercules at 8:40 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid in a steel cage match at 8:02 by escaping the cageWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – June 26, 1987 (4,236) B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated ? & ? Billy Jack Haynes defeated Paul Orndorff via disqualification Mr. Fuji defeated SD Jones The One Man Gang & Ron Bass defeated Ted Dibiase & Sam Houston when Bass pinned Houston after Dibiase turned on his partner, threw him to the floor, rammed his head into the ringpost, slammed him, and threw him back into the ring before leaving ringside Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Islanders WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) with a slam and legdrop at 6:29; Jim Ross & Jerry Lawler provided new commentary for the bout; after the match, Fuji, Kimchee, and Kamala attempted to triple team Hogan but Hogan cleared them from the ring (Hulk Hogan: The Unreleased Archives)WWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – June 27, 1987 (3,500) Jim Brunzell defeated Ron Bass Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Paul Orndorff defeated Ken Patera Randy Savage defeated Outback Jack King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim The One Man Gang defeated Cpl. Kirchner Demolition defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via count-out Bruno Sammartino won a $50,000 battle royal; other participants included Randy Savage, King Harley Race, King Kong Bundy, Bam Bam Bigelow, Ken Patera, Paul Orndorff, Billy Jack Haynes, Hillbilly Jim, Davey Boy Smith, the Dynamite Kid, Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Ron Bass and Outback Jack; the final four were Sammartino, Haynes, Muraco, and OrtonWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – June 27, 1987 George Steele vs. Killer Khan Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Jake Roberts vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man Also featured 3 other bouts, including a women’s tag team matchWWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – June 27, 1987 (5,604) Lanny Poffo pinned Dusty Wolfe (sub. for Tiger Chung Lee) SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi Jerry Allen pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Islanders Nikolai Volkoff pinned the Junkyard Dog Jacques & Raymond Rougeau & Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V when Beefcake pinned Johnny V WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned KamalaWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – June 28, 1987 (7,125)Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Bobby Heenan on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 8/3/87: Outback Jack pinned Johnny K-9 at 3:13 with the bulldogPrime Time Wrestling – 7/6/87: Hillbilly Jim defeated Steve Lombardi via submission with the bearhug at 7:23Prime Time Wrestling – 7/13/87: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau in a non-title match at 8:35 when Hart pinned Jacques following a clothesline from NeidhartInternational Wrestling Challenge: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo when Blair pinned Bravo after a dropkick from Brunzell at 7:55Prime Time Wrestling – 7/6/87: King Kong Bundy pinned Cpl. Kirchner at 3:07 with a clothesline and elbow dropPrime Time Wrestling – 7/6/87: Billy Jack Haynes defeated Ron Bass via disqualification at 10:06 after Bass used his whip, Miss Betsy, as a weapon and shoved the referee to the matPrime Time Wrestling – 7/6/87: Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V via submission with the sleeper at 4:51; after the bout, Beefcake cut some of his opponent’s hair before dying it pink B. Brian Blair won a 20-man $50,000 battle royal by last eliminating WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart at 13:26; other participants included: Ken Patera, Billy Jack Haynes, Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, King Kong Bundy, WWF Tag Team Champion Jim Neidhart, Outback Jack, the One Man Gang, Cpl. Kirchner, Paul Orndorff, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Hillbilly Jim, Brutus Beefcake, Johnny V, Kamala, Kimchee, and Ron Bass; stipulations stated wrestlers were only eliminated if they hit the floor, not if they were thrown onto the entrance ramp; order of elimination: Kimchee by Jacques via a backdrop (1:51); Jack by Kamala & Bass (2:06); Bass by the Rougeaus (4:59); Jacques by Orndorff (5:02); Kirchner by Orndorff (5:38); Orndorff by Haynes (6:03); Raymond by Bravo (6:52); Bundy by Kamala, Jim, Blair, & Haynes (7:03); Jim by Kamala (7:11); Bravo by Blair & Brunzell (8:11); Johnny V & Beefcake were eliminated as V and Valentine attempted to eliminate Beefcake (8:29); Beefcake and V continued to fight after the eliminations, all the way onto the ramp and backstage; Valentine by Hart (10:00); Kamala by Haynes via a dropkick (10:03); Haynes by OMG (10:11); OMG by Blair & Brunzell via a double dropkick (10:19); after Kamala’s elimination, Kimchee came back out to take him backstage; when the match came down to the Killer Bees vs. the Hart Foundation, Blair & Brunzell put on their masks; Blair by Hart & Neidhart (12:06); Neidhart by Brunzell (13:09); moments later, Neidhart got on the apron to argue with the referee, with Hart throwing Blair over the top to the floor; behind the referee’s back, Blair slid back into the ring, replacing his partner, and knocked Hart out of the ring with a dropkick; after the bout, Blair & Brunzell celebrated with the winner’s trophy and $50,000 check; Ken Patera & Killer Khan were originally scheduled for the battle royal but did not appearWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – June 28, 1987 George Steele vs. Nikolai Volkoff King Harley Race vs. the Junkyard Dog Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Demolition Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Also included 2 other matchesWWF @ Battle Creek, MI – Kellogg Arena – June 28, 1987 SD Jones pinned Shadow #1 Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Islanders WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Shadow #2 pinned Lanny Poffo Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Dusty Wolfe; after the bout, Dibiase invited any fan in attendance to kiss his foot for $100; the fan chosen was a young Rob Van Dam George Steele defeated Nikolai Volkoff Jake Roberts pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title matchWWF @ Uniontown, PA – High School Gym – June 29, 1987 (850) Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs at 14:33 Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows at 21:47 Koko B. Ware defeated Kamala via disqualification at 9:48 The Dingo Warrior (sub. for Tom Magee) pinned Steve Lombardi Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid at 9:03WWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – June 29, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Ron Bass Cpl. Kirchner vs. the One Man Gang WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jake Roberts vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man Brutus Beefcake, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo, Greg Valentine, & Pat Patterson WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Worcester, MA – Centrum – June 29, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. Tiger Chung Lee SD Jones vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Killer Khan vs. Brad Rheingans Butch Reed vs. Lanny Poffo The Junkyard Dog vs. King Harley Race George Steele vs. Nikolai Volkoff King Kong Bundy & Paul Orndorff vs. Billy Jack Haynes & Ken PateraWWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – June 30, 1987 (3,498) Don Muraco pinned SD Jones Bob Orton Jr. pinned Tiger Chung Lee Randy Savage fought Butch Reed to a time-limit draw at 19:02 Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai via count-out Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Hercules & Killer Khan (sub. for Paul Orndorff) when Haynes pinned HerculesWWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – June 30, 1987The scheduled match with Killer Khan vs. Sivi Afi was cancelled Iron Mike Sharpe vs. Brad Rheingans Lanny Poffo vs. Frenchy Martin The One Man Gang vs. Tony Garea (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) Ron Bass vs. Outback Jack B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Newmarket, Ontario – Recreation Complex – July 1, 1987The scheduled match with Killer Khan vs. Sivi Afi was cancelled Johnny K-9 defeated Dusty Wolfe Frankie Lane defeated Terry Morgan Lanny Poffo defeated Frenchy Martin Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Brad Rheingans The One Man Gang defeated Tony Garea (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) Ron Bass defeated Outback Jack B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart)WWF @ Altoona, PA – Jaffa Mosque – July 1, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Terry Gibbs (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) Scott McGhee vs. Steve Lombardi Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Demolition Koko B. Ware vs. KamalaWWF @ Spokane, WA – Coliseum – July 1, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine Randy Savage vs. Butch Reed Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes vs. Paul Orndorff & HerculesWWF @ Portland, OR – Memorial Coliseum – July 2, 1987 (5,500) SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Jerry Allen & Steve Gatorwolf WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Butch Reed fought Randy Savage to a double disqualification Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Hercules & Killer Khan (sub. for Paul Orndorff)WWF @ New Castle, PA – Field House – July 2, 1987 (800) The Dingo Warrior (sub. for Tom Magee) pinned Steve Lombardi at 12:07 Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid at 9:14 when Ax pinned Smith Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs at 19:05 Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows at 26:07 when Roma pinned Shadow #1 Koko B. Ware pinned Kamala at 8:56WWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – July 2, 1987 Jose Estrada defeated David Sammartino Lanny Poffo defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Islanders Ron Bass defeated Brady Boone (sub. for Sivi Afi) Tito Santana defeated Danny Davis in a lumberjack match The One Man Gang fought George Steele to a double disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Salt Lake, UT – Salt Palace – July 3, 1987 (7,884) The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai via count-out The One Man Gang defeated Brady Boone Ken Patera pinned Hercules Butch Reed pinned Tito Santana after Slick tripped Santana from the outside Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Jerry Allen & Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Shawn Michaels & Marty Jannetty) SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage with the legdropWWF @ Calgary, Alberta – Saddledome – July 3, 1987 Lanny Poffo defeated Steve Lombardi Iron Mike Sharpe pinned David Sammartino Scott Casey fought Jose Estrada to a draw Tom Magee defeated Ron Bass via disqualification Kamala defeated George Steele via count-out Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the IslandersWWF @ Victoria, British Columbia – Memorial Arena – July 3, 1987 Shadow #1 vs. Paul Roma Shadow #2 vs. Jim Powers Sam Houston vs. Terry Gibbs Demolition vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Greg Valentine vs. Brutus Beefcake WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Regina, Saskatchewan – Taylor Field – July 4, 1987 (matinee) (7,000)The card was held before a Toronto Argonauts-Saskatchewan Roughriders football game Shadow #1 defeated Jim Powers Paul Roma defeated Shadow #2 Sam Houston defeated Terry Gibbs Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) via disqualification when Fuji interfered WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg ValentineWWF @ Vancouver, British Columbia – PNE Coliseum – July 4, 1987 Sivi Afi vs. Steve Lombardi Lanny Poffo vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Scott Casey vs. Jose Estrada Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the Islanders Billy Jack Haynes vs. Ron Bass Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Kamala vs. George SteeleWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – July 4, 1987 (8,818) SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee Ken Patera pinned Hercules Tito Santana fought Butch Reed to a time-limit draw WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage with the legdrop after Elizabeth took a chair away from the challenger Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Jerry Allen & Steve Gatorwolf; after the bout, Orton & Muraco argued The One Man Gang defeated Brady Boone (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai via count-outWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – July 5, 1987 (4,230) Rick Rude defeated Lanny Poffo Koko B. Ware pinned Nikolai Volkoff B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the Shadows Danny Davis defeated George Steele via count-out Sika defeated Outback Jack Tito Santana & the Junkyard Dog defeated Demolition via disqualification The One Man Gang defeated Brady Boone The Junkyard Dog won a $50,000 20-man battle royal; other participants included: Hillbilly Jim, Koko B. Ware, Tito Santana, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Cpl. Kirchner, Outback Jack, Lanny Poffo, Rick Rude, the One Man Gang, Ron Bass, King Kong Bundy, Nikolai Volkoff, the Shadows, Demolition, Kamala, and SikaWWF @ Niagara Falls, Ontario – Memorial Arena – July 5 1987 (1,100) Jim Powers pinned Terry Gibbs Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Paul Roma Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada Dino Bravo pinned David Sammartino (sub. for Sivi Afi) Rick Martel & Tom Zenk fought the Islanders to a double count-out Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg ValentineWWF @ Oakland, CA – Coliseum – July 5, 1987 (14,152)George Steele vs. Danny Davis and Tito Santana vs. Killer Khan were originally advertised for the card SD Jones pinned Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Jerry Allen & Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Chavo Guerrero) Butch Reed pinned Scott Casey Billy Jack Haynes defeated Hercules in a chain match Ken Patera defeated Paul Orndorff via disqualification at the 12-minute mark WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels at the 14-minute mark WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage at the 8-minute markWWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – July 6, 1987 (15,739) WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels SD Jones pinned Tiger Chung Lee Bob Orton Jr. & Don Muraco defeated Steve Gatorwolf & Jerry Allen Butch Reed defeated Scott Casey Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Ken Patera defeated Paul Orndorff Billy Jack Haynes defeated Hercules in a chain match WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy SavageWWF @ Waterloo, IA – McElroy Auditorium – July 6, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Lanny Poffo vs. Rick Rude Cpl. Kirchner vs. Sika Outback Jack vs. Ron Bass B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Demolition Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. King Kong Bundy George Steele vs. KamalaWWF @ Davenport, IA – Palmer Auditorium – July 7, 1987 (1,800) Sika defeated Brady Boone The Dingo Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack King Kong Bundy pinned Hillbilly Jim Tony Garea (sub. for B. Brian Blair) & Jim Brunzell defeated Demolition via disqualification Rick Rude pinned Lanny Poffo George Steele defeated Kamala via count-outWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – July 7, 1987 Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis SD Jones pinned Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Scott Casey & Jerry Allen Randy Savage fought Butch Reed to a double count-out Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Paul Orndorff & Hercules WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb AngelsWWF @ Hagerstown, MD – Fairgrounds – July 7, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Frenchy Martin Jerry Allen vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Sam Houston vs. Jose Estrada The Junkyard Dog vs. Nikolai Volkoff Brutus Beefcake vs. Dino Bravo The Islanders vs. Rick Martel & Tom ZenkWWF @ Wheeling, WV – Civic Center – July 8, 1987 (1,849) Pedro Morales (sub. for Tom Magee) pinned Frenchy Martin Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada Iron Mike Sharpe pinned David Sammartino (sub. for Jerry Allen) The Junkyard Dog pinned Nikolai Volkoff Brutus Beefcake pinned Dino Bravo Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the IslandersWWF @ Tulsa, OK – Expo Square Pavilion – July 8, 1987 Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Scott Casey & Jerry Allen SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a double count-out Ken Patera defeated Paul Orndorff Randy Savage fought Butch Reed to a double count-outWWF @ Decatur, IL – Civic Center – July 8, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Rick Rude vs. Lanny Poffo Sika vs. Cpl. Kirchner Ron Bass vs. Outback Jack Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell King Kong Bundy vs. Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) Kamala vs. George SteeleWWF @ Hammond, IN – Civic Center – July 9, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Tiger Chung Lee Outback Jack vs. ? Lanny Poffo vs. Terry Gibbs WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. King Kong Bundy Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules Ken Patera vs. Paul OrndorffWWF @ Hartford, CT – Civic Center – July 9, 1987 (4,000)Featured an appearance by Mr. T Jose Estrada pinned Jose Luis Rivera Demolition defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Butch Reed pinned Tito Santana by using the ropes for leverage Brutus Beefcake pinned Dino Bravo Rick Martel & Tom Zenk defeated the Islanders The One Man Gang pinned Mario Mancini (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage (sub. for Jake Roberts) via disqualificationWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – July 9, 1987 (5,469) SD Jones defeated Steve Lombardi Jerry Allen pinned Rick Rude with a sunset flip Scott Casey defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Killer Khan pinned Brady Boone (sub. for Sivi Afi) Koko B. Ware pinned Nikolai Volkoff Don Muraco fought Bob Orton Jr. to a draw Jim Brunzell & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated Kamala & Sika George Steele defeated Danny Davis in a steel cage match by escaping through the doorWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – July 10, 1987 (3,297)The scheduled Butch Reed vs. Cpl. Kirchner match was cancelled Tama pinned Steve Lombardi (sub. for Tom Zenk) The One Man Gang pinned Pedro Morales (sub. for Tito Santana) Rick Martel pinned Haku Kamala pinned Brady Boone Scott Casey pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Don Muraco fought Bob Orton Jr. to a double disqualification Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Brutus Beefcake pinned Dino Bravo Ken Patera defeated Hercules in a chain matchWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – July 10, 1987 (1,460)Featured Peter Birkholz & Paul Boesch on commentary:International Wrestling Challenge: The Dingo Warrior pinned Frenchy Martin at 4:37 with a gorilla press slam; during the pre-match introductions, Warrior was announced as being from Queens, NY Nikolai Volkoff pinned SD Jones at 4:29 with a backbreaker after Jones missed a charge in the corner Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) fought WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) to a double disqualification at 12:34 when Honky raked the referee’s eyes and tossed him to the floor, with Savage then punching Hart and referee Nick Kozak; eventually, Frenchy Martin, Nikolai Volkoff, Koko B. Ware, SD Jones, the Dingo Warrior, and Ron Bass came out to pull the two wrestlers apart, with Savage eventually taking possession of the IC title and giving it to Elizabeth Koko B. Ware fought Ron Bass to a time-limit draw at 18:45 George Steele pinned Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 5:34 when Steele fell on top as Davis attempted a slam; Davis bled from the face during the bout; after the match, Davis hit Steele with a foreign object and knocked him to the floor, with Steele then throwing chairs into the ring as Davis fled to the back; moments later, Steele invited several children into the ring and encouraged them to eat the turnbuckles Jim Brunzell & Tito Santana (sub for B. Brian Blair) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via count-out at 10:59 after Santana hit the flying forearm to Hart and knocked him to the floorWWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – July 10, 1987 (7,276) Brad Rheingans defeated Tiger Chung Lee Sika defeated Outback Jack Lanny Poffo defeated Terry Gibbs WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Billy Jack Haynes fought Paul Orndorff to a draw King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer KhanWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – July 11, 1987 (6,371)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 7/27/87: Jim Powers pinned Shadow #2 with a reverse sunset flip at 11:07All American Wrestling – 7/26/87: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Scott Casey with the side suplex at 5:59; Jimmy Hart did guest commentary for the boutPrime Time Wrestling – 7/27/87: Bob Orton Jr. pinned Jerry Allen with the superplex at 6:26Wrestling Spotlight – 7/25/87: Tito Santana pinned Don Muraco (sub. for Butch Reed) at 8:22 with a sunset flip out of the corner; after the bout, and against the wishes of Bob Orton Jr. who came ringside after the bout, Muraco shook Santana’s hand for being the better man; Orton then left ringside disgusted while Muraco soon followed as the two continued to argue Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via count-out at 11:17 after ramming the champion face-first into the ringpost and then chasing Hart into the ring just before the 10-countPrime Time Wrestling – 7/27/87: The One Man Gang pinned Jose Luis Rivera (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) at 4:11 with the front suplex; Johnny V did guest commentary for the boutPrime Time Wrestling – 7/27/87: Paul Roma pinned Shadow #1 at 8:54 with a sunset flip off the topPrime Time Wrestling – 8/3/87: Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V (sub. for Greg Valentine) via submission with the sleeper at 3:26; after the bout, Beefcake cut Johnny V’s hair before spraying him with orange spray Rick Martel & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for Tom Zenk) defeated the Islanders at 11:22 when JYD pinned Tama with a powerslam; after the match, the Islanders attacked their opponentsWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – July 11, 1987 (4,200) Brad Rheingans defeated Tiger Chung Lee Lanny Poffo defeated Terry Gibbs Sika defeated Outback Jack Paul Orndorff fought Billy Jack Haynes to a draw Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out as Bundy chased Beaver around ringside WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race at around the 10-minute markWWF @ Tampa, FL – SunDome – July 11, 1987 Dingo Warrior defeated Joe Mirto Brady Boone pinned the Gladiator; the match replaced the scheduled Rick Rude vs. Sivi Afi match Pedro Morales (sub. for Chavo Guerrero) defeated Frenchy Martin WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Koko B. Ware pinned Nikolai Volkoff George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Ken Patera defeated Hercules via disqualificationOrangeburg, SC – City Gym – July 11, 1987 Steve Douglas defeated Andre Lomax Eric Cooper defeated the Bandit Al Navarro defeated David Three Feathers Bubba Kirk defeated Don Driggers via reverse decision WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah defeated Jeanne KirklandWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – July 12, 1987 (3,100) Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis George Steele defeated Nikolai Volkoff The Dingo Warrior defeated Joe Mirto Pedro Morales defeated Frenchy Martin Brady Boone defeated the Gladiator WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Ken Patera defeated Hercules via disqualificationWWF @ Portland, ME – Civic Center – July 12, 1987 (3,095) Tama defeated Jose Luis Rivera (sub. for Tom Zenk) Bob Orton Jr. defeated Scott Casey The One Man Gang defeated Jerry Allen Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Rick Martel defeated Haku The Junkyard Dog defeated Greg Valentine Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo Tito Santana defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Kansas City, MO – Kemper Arena – July 12, 1987 (8,357) WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Lanny Poffo defeated Terry Gibbs Brad Rheingans defeated Tiger Chung Lee Sika defeated Outback Jack Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out; after the bout, Paul Orndorff attacked Little Beaver with Jim then challenging him to a match Hillbilly Jim (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes, injured the day before in St. Louis) defeated Paul Orndorff via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan fought King Harley Race to a double count-outWWF @ Manchester, NH – JFK Coliseum – July 13, 1987 (2,000) Greg Valentine defeated Scott Casey The Junkyard Dog defeated the One Man Gang via count-out Dino Bravo fought Tito Santana to a draw The Islanders defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Brutus Beefcake defeated Butch Reed via disqualification The Junkyard Dog (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title match Tito Santana won a bunkhouse battle royalWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – July 13, 1987 (1,377) Killer Khan pinned Tony Garea Koko B. Ware pinned Nikolai Volkoff Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. via disqualification The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Sika pinned Outback Jack Ken Patera pinned HerculesWWF @ Syracuse, NY – Onondoga War Memorial – July 13, 1987 SD Jones defeated Tiger Chung Lee The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai in a non-title match Lanny Poffo defeated Brady Boone Jim Brunzell & Pedro Morales (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out King Kong Bundy defeated Hillbilly Jim Randy Savage won a 14-man battle royalWWF @ Utica, NY – Memorial Auditorium – July 14, 1987 (1,000) Sika defeated Outback Jack Koko B. Ware pinned Nikolai Volkoff The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai in a non-title match Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Ken Patera defeated Hercules via disqualificationWWF @ Lowell, MA – Memorial Auditorium – July 14, 1987 Dino Bravo vs. ? (sub. for Jake Roberts) Rick Martel defeated Haku The Junkyard Dog (sub. for Tom Zenk) defeated Tama Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Mario Mancini & Pete Doherty Butch Reed defeated Scott Casey Tito Santana defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Hudson, NY – High School Gym – July 14, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Terry Gibbs SD Jones vs. Iron Mike Sharpe The One Man Gang vs. Jerry Allen George Steele vs. Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Jim Brunzell & ? (sub. for B. Brian Blair) Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg ValentineWWF @ Watertown, NY – High School Gym – July 14, 1987 Brad Rheingans vs. Jose Estrada Lanny Poffo vs. Rick Rude Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. the Shadows ? (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) vs. Killer Khan Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. King Kong Bundy Randy Savage vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – July 15, 1987WWF Superstars taping: Dan Kroffatt defeated Steve LombardiInternational Wrestling Challenge: Tito Santana fought Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) to a time-limit draw; after the bout, Santana cleared the ring of both Valentine and Johnny V; Brutus Beefcake did guest commentary for the boutAll American Wrestling – 8/2/87: The Junkyard Dog (sub. for Tom Zenk) & Rick Martel defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at 12:23 after JYD sustained the Hart Attack with Bret coming off the top7/25/87 – included an interview with Rick Martel in which it was announced Tom Zenk had left the WWF: Koko B. Ware pinned Barry Horowitz with the Ghostbuster at 1:43 The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated SD Jones & Scott Casey when Haku pinned Jones after a double headbutt at 2:26 Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo with the Pedigree at 1:27 Superstar Billy Graham defeated Steve Lombardi via submission with a sleeper at 1:18; after the match Craig DeGeorge interviewed Butch Reed & Slick on the stage and Reed challenged Graham for a posedown to take place the following week (Graham’s return bout from hip surgery) B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Tiger Chung Lee & Iron Mike Sharpe when Brunzell pinned Lee following two dropkicks at 3:39 Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Omar Atlas with the flying elbowsmash at 2:018/1/87: Brutus Beefcake & Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Bubba Kirk, Rick Renslow, & Dave Wagner when Raymond pinned Kirk after a double-team move from the Rougeaus at 1:54 Hercules, King Harley Race, & Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Mario Mancini, Ricky Hunter, & Jerry Allen when Rude pinned Hunter with a slingshot suplex at 1:38 (Rude’s TV debut) Ken Patera defeated Terry Gibbs via submission with a bearhug at 1:21 WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Joe Malono with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll at 2:22 Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed (w/ Slick) in a posedown; before the result of the contest was revealed, Reed & Slick attacked Graham, focusing on his hip, until Graham cleared Reed out of the ring; Gene Okerlund was the MC for the event Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Eric Cooper with the flying kneedrop after spitting green mist in his opponent’s face at 1:138/8/87 – included the announcement that Jimmy Hart had been rejected in the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’;: Tito Santana, the Junkyard Dog, & Hillbilly Jim defeated Don Muraco, Bob Orton Jr., & Joe Mirto when Santana pinned Muraco at 3:02 after Orton pushed Muraco over as he attempted to do Orton’s superplex, with Santana falling on top after Orton had earlier attempted Muraco’s tombstone; after the bout, Muraco and Orton fought into the crowd Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Sivi Afi & Brady Boone when Ax pinned Boone after the Decapitation at 2:51 George Steele defeated Dusty Wolfe via submission with the flying hammerlock at 1:48 Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) via reverse decision in a non-title match; the champions originally won the match when Bret pinned Roma with his feet on the ropes at 2:56 but Mr. T, acting as the enforcer of the WWF, overruled the pinfall Jake Roberts pinned Barry Horowitz with the DDT at 1:09 The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned David Stoudimiere with the front suplex at the 58-second mark; after the bout, OMG hit another front suplex on his opponent as well as the referee; two others wrestlers then came out to help, one of whom was Dusty Wolfe, and both received the front suplex as well; the OMG’s actions resulted in him being fined $10,000Dark matches: Jake Roberts (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title match after guest ringside enforcer Mr. T punched the champion WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) with the legdrop after Elizabeth took a chair from the challengerWWF @ Lake Placid, NY – Olympic Center – July 16, 1987Wrestling Challenge taping: George Steele, B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Koko B. WareWrestling Spotlight – 8/1/87: Superstar Billy Graham defeated Terry Gibbs via count-out at 2:17 when Gibbs left ringsidePrime Time Wrestling – 8/10/87: WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels at 10:33 when Kai pinned Itsuki Yamazaki following a powerbomb from Martin7/26/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Bobby Heenan & King Harley Race; included the Mr. T / Danny Davis Snake Pit from the 7/18 Superstars: Ken Patera defeated Al Navarro via submission at 1:53 with the swinging neckbreaker Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Scott Casey & Steve Douglas at 3:11 when Smash pinned Douglas following the Decapitation George Steele defeated the Gladiator via submission at 2:32 with the flying hammerlock Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned David Stoudemire at 2:59 with the flying kneedrop after spitting green mist in his opponent’s face Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Steve Lombardi & Barry Horowitz at 4:20 when Roma pinned Horowitz with a sunset flip off the top The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Eric Cooper at 1:38 with the front suplex8/2/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ron Bass; included footage of Sherri Martel beating the Fabulous Moolah for the Women’s Title on 7/24 in Houston: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Brady Boone at 4:19 with the flying elbow drop Jake Roberts pinned Rick Renslow at 2:40 with the DDT WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated SD Jones & Sivi Afi in a non-title match at 4:14 following the Hart Attack Koko B. Ware pinned Terry Gibbs at 2:25 with the Ghostbuster Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jerry Allen via submission to the full nelson at 1:56 B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell & the Junkyard Dog defeated Tiger Chung Lee, Joe Mertoe, & Dave Labner at 3:25 when JYD pinned Labner with the powerslam8/9/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, & Johnny V; included footage of Slick & Mr. Fuji arguing with each other, with both claiming to have the managerial contract of Bam Bam Bigelow: The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Rick Hunter & Omar Atlas at 3:42 Hillbilly Jim & Tito Santana defeated Barry Horowitz & Joe Mirto at 2:57 when Mirto submitted to Santana’s figure-4 WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned David Stoudemire at 2:20 in a non-title match following the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Brutus Beefcake, Jacuqes, & Raymond Rougeau defeated Mario Mancini, Dusty Wolfe, & Iron Mike Sharpe at 2:44 after Beefcake applied the sleeper on Mancini Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Lanny Poffo at 1:05 with a superplexDark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Ken Patera defeated King Harley Race & HerculesWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – July 17, 1987 (4,664) SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi Kamala defeated Sivi Afi Paul Orndorff pinned Pedro Morales (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Sika pinned SD Jones Ken Patera pinned Hercules; Bruno Sammartino was the guest referee for the bout; after the match, Sammartino made the save for Patera against Hercules, Orndorff, and Bobby Heenan Ron Bass pinned Jerry Allen WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau (sub. for B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell) at around the 18-minute markWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – July 17, 1987 Randy Savage vs. Nikolai Volkoff George Steele vs. Danny Davis (guest referee: Mr. T) Included 5 other matchesWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – July 17, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Sam Houston defeated Barry Horowitz The Junkyard Dog defeated Jose Estrada Tito Santana fought the One Man Gang to a double disqualification Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated King Kong Bundy Killer Khan defeated Outback Jack Rick Martel defeated Tama WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – July 18, 1987 (6,000) Brad Rheingans defeated Terry Gibbs Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows The Dingo Warrior pinned Jose Estrada Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Paul Orndorff fought Tito Santana to a draw Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) pinned King Kong Bundy Jim Brunzell & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via count-out; Mr. T was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ Halifax, Nova Scotia – Forum – July 18, 1987 (sell out) SD Jones vs. Steve Lombardi Kamala vs. Jerry Allen Ron Bass vs. Sam Houston Billy Jack Haynes vs. Hercules Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. Randy SavageWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – July 18, 1987 (5,000)Televised on the PRISM Network – featured Dick Graham & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary; Craig DeGeorge replaced Hayes for the OMG / Outback Jack and Martel / Tama matches: Brady Boone pinned Barry Horowitz at 11:36 with a roll up into a bridge; prior to the bout, Horowitz was identified as “Al Horowitz” with the on-screen graphicPrime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87: Rick Rude pinned Scott Casey at 11:44 with a slingshot suplexPrime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87: Koko B. Ware pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 11:11 with a missile dropkickPrime Time Wrestling – 8/24/87: The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Outback Jack (sub. for Chavo Guerrero) with the front suplex at 6:04 Rick Martel pinned Tama (w/ Haku) at 15:25 when the momentum of a flying bodypress by Tama put Martel on top for the win; after the match, Martel was double teamed by both Islanders; the bout was originally scheduled as a tag team contest between Martel & Tom Zenk against the Islanders but was changed after Zenk left the company Danny Davis defeated George Steele via disqualification at 4:58 after Steele hit Davis with his own foreign objectPrime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87: Killer Khan pinned Lanny Poffo with a flying kneedrop from the middle turnbuckle at 7:02 Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out at 10:55 after the challenger climbed back into the ring after both men began brawling on the floorWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – July 19, 1987 King Kong Bundy vs. Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) The Junkyard Dog vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man Also included Paul Orndorff and 5 other matchesWWF @ Denver, CO – McNichols Arena – July 19, 1987 (6,796) Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. when Muraco was pinned after accidentally sustaining a blow from Orton Jerry Allen pinned Barry Horowitz Don Muraco (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) pinned Hercules Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo Randy Savage defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out after hitting Hogan with the title belt; after the bout, Hogan went backstage, dragged Savage back out, and reclaimed the stolen championship belt Brady Boone (sub. for Chavo Guerrero) pinned Jose Estrada Rick Rude pinned Scott Casey King Harley Race pinned Tito SantanaWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – July 19, 1987 (winners recieve tag team title shot)Quarter-Finals: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Demolition via count-out The Islanders defeated Jim Brunzell & Koko B. Ware (sub. for B. Brian Blair) Rick Martel & George Steele (sub. for Tom Zenk) defeated Kamala & Sika after Steele hit Sika with a foreign objectSemi-Finals: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated the Islanders Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Rick Martel & George Steele (sub. for Tom Zenk)Non-tournament match: Danny Davis defeated Koko B. WareFinals: Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid after Bravo kicked Davey Boy Smith in the chest as Smith had Valentine in a Boston Crab; due to pre-match stipulations, Valentine & Bravo earned a tag team title shotNon-tournament match: WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification after Danny Davis interferedWWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Convention Center – July 20, 1987 (3,500) Sam Houston defeated ? The Dingo Warrior defeated ? Killer Khan defeated Outback Jack Nikolai Volkoff defeated ? Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated King Kong Bundy The Junkyard Dog defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification The Junkyard Dog won a 14-man battle royal by last eliminating the One Man Gang moments after Gang had eliminated SD Jones; other participants included: King Kong Bundy, Killer Khan, Hillbilly Jim, Nikolai Volkoff, Paul Orndorff, Outback Jack, Sam Houston, Brad Rheingans, Terry Gibbs, the Dingo Warrior, & the ShadowsWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – July 20, 1987 (2,500)Tag Team Tournament – winners receive title matchQuarter Finals: The Islanders defeated Jim Brunzell & Koko B. Ware (sub. for B. Brian Blair) at around the 15-minute mark Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau at around the 3-minute mark Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Demolition via disqualification at around the 5-minute mark Rick Martel & George Steele defeated Kamala & Sika at around the 7-minute mark when Martel pinned Sika after Steele used a foreign objectSemi Finals: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated the Islanders at around the 9-minute mark when Davey pinned Tama Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Rick Martel & George Steele at around the 6-minute mark when Bravo pinned SteeleNon-tournament match: Danny Davis pinned Koko B. Ware at around the 9-minute mark Finals: Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid at around the 2-minute mark after Bravo kicked Smith in the chest as Smith had Valentine in a Boston CrabNon-tournament match: WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification at around the 6-minute mark when Danny Davis interferedWWF @ Albuquerque, NM – Tingley Coliseum – July 20, 1987 (8,546) Jose Estrada pinned Brady Boone (sub. for Chavo Guerrero) Jerry Allen pinned Barry Horowitz Rick Rude pinned Lanny Poffo Ron Bass pinned Scott Casey Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Tito Santana pinned King Harley Race Don Muraco (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) pinned Hercules WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage at around the 7-minute markWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – July 21, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Sika vs. Brad Rheingans Sam Houston & SD Jones vs. the Shadows WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Kamala vs. King Kong Bundy WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. the Junkyard DogWWF @ Johnstown, PA – Cambria County War Memorial – July 21, 1987 (1,239) Nikolai Volkoff pinned Omar Atlas at around the 13-minute mark with a stomp from the middle turnbuckle Jacques Rougeau pinned Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) at around the 8-minute mark after dropkicking him into Johnny V, who was on the ring apron Rick Martel pinned Tama (w/ Haku) at 14:27 after Tama sustained a double axe handle off the top from Haku when the interference backfired; prior to the bout, a coin toss had taken place to decide if Tama or Haku would wrestle the match; after the bout, Martel was double teamed Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Terry Gibbs at 5:35 with the jumping kneedrop Haku (w/ Tama) pinned Mario Mancini at 7:58 with a side kick to the face Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) pinned Raymond Rougeau at 7:06 with a knee to the back and hooking the tights for leverage after Rougeau became distracted by Johnny V on the ring apron Bruno Sammartino won a 16-man battle royal by last eliminating Nikolai Volkoff at around the 9-minute mark; other participants included Killer Khan, Demolition, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Johnny V, Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, Rick Martel, the Islanders, Omar Atlas, Terry Gibbs, and Mario Mancini; order of elimination: Atlas by Bravo; Bravo by Jacques; Mancini by Raymond; the Islanders & Gibbs by the Rougeaus; Martel was eliminated; Jacques by Demolition; Demolition by a number of other wrestlers; Khan by Raymond & Sammartino; Raymond by Volkoff after he collided head-to-head with Sammartino; Johnny V by Volkoff via a punch after Sammartino avoided the move; Volkoff by SammartinoWWF @ Oklahoma City, OK – State Fair Arena – July 21, 1987 (4,544) Chavo Guerrero vs. Jose Estrada Lanny Poffo (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) vs. Rick Rude Scott Casey vs. Ron Bass Bob Orton Jr. vs. Paul Roma Don Muraco (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) vs. Hercules Tito Santana vs. King Harley Race WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Randy SavageWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – July 22, 1987 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Kamala vs. King Kong Bundy Also included the Junkyard DogWWF @ Kittanning, PA – Belmont Ice Arena – July 22, 1987 (500) Ron Bass defeated Mario Mancini Demolition defeated Jimmy Jackson & Ray Miller (sub. for Lanny Poffo & Outback Jack) Raymond Rougeau pinned Greg Valentine Dino Bravo pinned Jacques Rougeau Terry Gibbs defeated Omar Atlas Jerry Allen defeated Dante DeNucci Rick Martel pinned Tama; the match was advertised as Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the IslandersWWF @ Kitchener, Ontario – Memorial Coliseum – July 22, 1987 (2,650) Barry Horowitz pinned Brady Boone Lanny Poffo (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Jose Estrada Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. defeated Jim Powers & Johnny K-9 (sub. for Paul Roma) when Muraco pinned K-9; after the bout, Muraco & Orton argued and fought with each other Tito Santana pinned Nikolai Volkoff Don Muraco (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) pinned Hercules Randy Savage (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ Flint, MI – IMA Sports Arena – July 23, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Jose Estrada ? (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) vs. Hercules Tito Santana vs. Nikolai Volkoff WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Randy Savage vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Wilkes-Barre, PA – Scandlon Gym – July 23, 1987 Tom Magee vs. Terry Gibbs Ron Bass vs. Jerry Allen Jacques Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo Demolition vs. Outback Jack & Lanny Poffo Rick Martel vs. Haku or Tama; the match was advertised as Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the IslandersWWF @ Peterborough, Ontario – Community Centre – July 23, 1987 Sam Houston & SD Jones vs. the Shadows The Dingo Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Sika vs. Brad Rheingans Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Kamala defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated the Junkyard DogWWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – July 24, 1987 (2,980) The Shadows defeated SD Jones & Lanny Poffo Tito Santana pinned Nikolai Volkoff The One Man Gang pinned Brady Boone Ken Patera pinned Hercules Jim Brunzell & Koko B. Ware (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification Ron Bass pinned Tiger Chung Lee WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-outWWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – July 24, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. Frenchy Martin Tom Magee vs. Steve Lombardi Sam Houston vs. Dino Bravo Kamala & Sika vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Rick Martel vs. Haku or Tama; the match was advertised as Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the Islanders Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg ValentineWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – July 24, 1987 (2,704) Scott Casey defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. The Dingo Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Hillbilly Jim defeated Butch Reed Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Sherri Martel pinned WWF Women’s Champion the Fabulous Moolah to win the title at 7:56 by blocking an attempted slam into the ring and reversing it into a cradle; after the match, Moolah knocked down referee Joey Marella for counting the pin before Sherri hit her in the back with the title belt – sending Moolah to the floor (Best of the WWF Vol. 15, The Women of the WWF) The Junkyard Dog fought King Harley Race to a draw Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honktyonk Man via disqualification; Mr. T was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ Bristol, TN – Viking Hall – July 25, 1987 (3,948; sell out) The Dingo Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz The One Man Gang defeated Sam Houston Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Tony Garea vs. Frenchy Martin ? (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) vs. Mr. Fuji (sub. for Butch Reed) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Randy SavageWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – July 25, 1987 (4,197) Steve Lombardi defeated Jose Estrada (sub. for Pedro Morales) Lanny Poffo defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Jim Brunzell & the Junkyard Dog (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated Kamala & Sika Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Ken Patera pinned Paul Orndorff (w/ Paul Orndorff) in a whipping match after Heenan accidentally hit Orndorff; Mr. T, who was the outside official, made the pinfall after the original referee had been knocked out; after the bout, Orndorff left ringside without Heenan WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-outWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – July 25, 1987 (18,100)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary; included Monsoon conducting backstage interviews with Ricky Steamboat & WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart after their match, with Steamboat saying he would go out later to publicly challenge Honky to a rematch, with Honky saying in his interview that Steamboat didn’t deserve a rematch; included Monsoon interviewing Tito Santana about his match with Nikolai Volkoff later in the show:Prime Time Wrestling – 8/3/87: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Brady Boone (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) at 10:46 with the side suplex Rick Martel pinned Tama (w/ Haku) at 19:47 when the momentum of a crossbody from Tama put Martel on top; after the bout, Martel was double-teamed until several referees were able to keep the Islanders away; the bout was originally scheduled as a tag team match with the Islanders vs. Martel & Tom ZenkPrime Time Wrestling – 8/10/87: Butch Reed pinned Hillbilly Jim at 10:58 with a flying clothesline and using Hillbilly’s overalls for leverage during the cover Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via count-out at 11:39 when Steamboat tried to drag Honky back into the ring before the 10-count but Honky held onto the apron to prevent it; after the bout, Steamboat attacked Honky on the floor and chased Hart from the ring when Hart was parading around the ring with the beltPrime Time Wrestling – 8/3/87: Tito Santana pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 8:21 with the flying forearm; after the bout, Ron Bass attacked Santana and whipped and choked him with Miss Betsy until Outback Jack made the save leading straight into their scheduled match Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack at around the 6-minute mark with the pedigree; after the bout, Ricky Steamboat came to the ring and announced that he had being granted a rematch with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man for the following month’s card and said there would be wrestlers around the ring making this a lumberjack match so that Honky couldn’t get himself counted out again Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification at 13:11 when Dino Bravo interfered as Beefcake had the sleeper on Johnny V when Johnny had attempted to interfere moments earlier; after the bout, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid made the save as Valentine made a start cutting Beefcake’s hair as Bravo held him upPrime Time Wrestling – 8/3/87: Rick Rude defeated Jerry Allen via submission with a backbreaker at 7:12 (Rude’s MSG debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 8/10/87: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid at 10:26 when Bret pinned Smith after Neidhart swept Smith’s legs out from under him as the challenger attempted to suplex Hart into the ring; after the bout, the Bulldogs cleared the ring of the champions and Jimmy HartWWF @ Wichita, KS – Kansas Coliseum – July 26, 1987 (7,932)Debut in Wichita The Dingo Warrior vs. Frenchy Martin Bob Orton Jr. vs. Lanny Poffo Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Randy SavageWWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – July 26, 1987 (2,859)Featured an appearance by Mr. T Outback Jack defeated Jose Estrada Ron Bass defeated Jerry Allen Rick Rude defeated Omar Atlas WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels George Steele defeated Danny Davis Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Ken Patera defeated Paul OrndorffWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – July 26, 1987 (5,000)The scheduled Billy Jack Haynes vs. King Harley Race match was cancelled Brady Boone pinned Barry Horowitz Butch Reed pinned Steve Gatorwolf in 30-seconds Tito Santana pinned Butch Reed Jim Brunzell & Hillbilly Jim (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification Scott Casey pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Ricky Steamboat defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Allentown, PA – Agricultural Hall – July 27, 1987 (1,700) Omar Atlas defeated Frenchy Martin Outback Jack defeated Jose Estrada Ron Bass defeated Jerry Allen Superstar Billy Graham defeated Don Muraco Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualificationWWF @ Birmingham, AL – State Fairgrounds Arena – July 27, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine George Steele vs. Danny DavisWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – July 27, 1987 Brady Boone defeated Barry Horowitz Scott Casey defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Butch Reed defeated Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Hillbilly Jim (sub. for B. Brian Blair) & Jim Brunzell King Harley Race defeated Tito Santana Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – July 28, 1987 Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Brady Boone pinned Barry Horowitz Scott Casey pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Tito Santana fought King Harley Race to a time-limit draw Butch Reed pinned Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & Hillbilly Jim (sub. for B. Brian Blair)WWF @ Wildwood, NJ – Convention Hall – July 28, 1987 Omar Atlas (sub. for Tom Magee) defeated Frenchy Martin Jose Estrada defeated Mario Mancini Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff via count-out Superstar Billy Graham defeated Don Muraco Ron Bass pinned Jerry Allen Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualificationWWF @ Montgomery, AL – Garrett Coliseum – July 28, 1987 WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine George Steele vs. Danny DavisWWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – July 29, 1987 Brady Boone defeated Barry Horowitz Butch Reed defeated Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows King Harley Race defeated Tito Santana Jim Brunzell & Hillbilly Jim (sub. for B. Brian Blair) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification Randy Savage (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Huntsville, AL – Von Braun Civic Center – July 29, 1987 Steve Lombardi pinned Sam Houston Killer Khan pinned Lanny Poffo The Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin via count-out Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Kamala & Sika defeated Jacques & Raymond RougeauWWF @ Asbury Park, NJ – Convention Hall – July 29, 1987 Omar Atlas defeated Jose Estrada; the bout replaced the scheduled match between Pedro Morales and Tiger Chung Lee Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Ron Bass defeated Jerry Allen Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff Superstar Billy Graham defeated Don Muraco Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated DemolitionWWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – July 30, 1987 Brady Boone defeated Barry Horwitz Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Scott Casey defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Butch Reed defeated Steve Gatorwolf King Harley Race fought Tito Santana to a draw WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Middletown, NY – Orange County Fair – July 30, 1987 Sivi Afi vs. Tiger Chung Lee Tom Magee vs. Frenchy Martin Ron Bass vs. Jerry Allen Koko B. Ware vs. Nikolai Volkoff Superstar Billy Graham vs. Don Muraco Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Demolition Ken Patera vs. HerculesWWF @ Ft. Myers, FL – Civic Center – July 30, 1987 Rick Rude vs. Joe Mirto Sam Houston vs. Steve Lombardi Lanny Poffo vs. Killer Khan The Jumping Bomb Angels vs. WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Kamala & Sika Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine George Steele vs. Danny DavisWWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – July 31, 1987 (4,069) Rick Rude defeated Jim Young (sub. for Joe Mirto) Steve Lombardi defeated Sam Houston Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Kamala & Sika defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification George Steele defeated Danny Davis in a lumberjack matchWWF @ Las Vegas, NV – Thomas & Mack Center – July 31, 1987 Brady Boone pinned Barry Horowitz Tito Santana fought King Harley Race to a time-limit draw at 17:40 Butch Reed pinned Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & Hillbilly Jim (sub. for B. Brian Blair) when Brunzell was pinned Scott Casey pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows (Randy Colley & Jose Luis Rivera) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification when Savage hit the refereeWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – July 31, 1987 Jerry Allen defeated Jose Estrada Outback Jack defeated Frenchy Martin Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff Paul Orndorff fought Don Muraco to a double disqualification Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Ken Patera & Superstar Billy Graham defeated Hercules & King Kong Bundy Killer Khan defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out; after the bout, the British Bulldogs helped Hogan backstage, with the champion holding his eyeWWF @ Worcester, MA – Centrum – August 1, 1987 Pete Doherty vs. ? Don Muraco vs. Tony Atlas Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Demolition George Steele vs. the One Man Gang Ken Patera vs. Paul Orndorff (Bobby Heenan handcuffed to Superstar Billy Graham at ringside)WWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – August 1, 1987 (2,025) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & Hillbilly Jim (sub. for B. Brian Blair) Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows The Dingo Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Bob Orton Jr. pinned Scott Casey Rick Rude defeated Brady Boone Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Brutus Beefcake pinned Hercules Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification; Mr. T was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – August 1, 1987 (15,000) Jerry Allen pinned Tiger Chung Lee Sika pinned Outback Jack Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau at 12:10; stipulations stated the winners would receive a WWF Tag Team Title shot on the Sept. 11 return date Kamala fought the Junkyard Dog to a double count-out Don Muraco (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) pinned King Harley Race WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan at 14:29WWF @ Springfield, MO – Hammons Student Center – August 2, 1987 (3,000) The Dingo Warrior vs. Barry Horowitz Bob Orton Jr. vs. Brady Boone Rick Rude vs. Scott Casey Hillbilly Jim vs. Hercules WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. the Junkyard DogWWF @ Battle Creek, MI – Kellogg Center Arena – August 2, 1987 Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Sika defeated Jerry Allen Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo Jim Brunzell fought Dino Bravo to a draw Kamala defeated George Steele via count-out Randy Savage defeated the One Man Gang Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg ValentineWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – August 2, 1987 (3,500) Sam Houston pinned Tiger Chung Lee Butch Reed pinned Outback Jack Don Muraco defeated Killer Khan via count-out Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Superstar Billy Graham defeated King Harley Race via disqualification WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Ken Patera pinned Paul Orndorff at around the 5-minute markWWF @ Winnipeg, Manitoba – Arena – August 3, 1987 (5,000) Bob Orton Jr. defeated Steve Lombardi Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification when Dino Bravo and Johnny V interfered, helped in triple teaming Beefcake, and cut some of his hair Kamala defeated Outback Jack Baron Von Raschke defeated Don Muraco via disqualification Demolition defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Ron Bass pinned Omar Atlas The Crusher (sub. for the Junkyard Dog) defeated Dino Bravo via forfiet when Bravo refused to wrestle since he signed to face JYD and not the Crusher Davey Boy Smith won a 20-man $50,000 battle royal by last eliminating Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine; other participants included: Bob Orton Jr., Steve Lombardi, Brutus Beefcake, Kamala, Outback Jack, Baron Von Raschke, Don Muraco, Demolition, the Dynamite Kid, Ron Bass, Omar Atlas, Brad Rheingans, & SikaWWF @ Cedar Rapids, IA – Five Seasons Center – August 3, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Jose Estrada Jerry Allen vs. Tiger Chung Lee Scott Casey vs. Rick Rude Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Ken Patera vs. King Harley Race (Whipping match with Bobby Heenan handcuffed to Superstar Billy Graham at ringside)WWF @ Rochelle, IL – Township High School Helms Athletic Complex – August 3, 1987 (outdoor show) The Dingo Warrior vs. Barry Horowitz Hercules vs. Brady Boone Butch Reed vs. Lanny Poffo Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows George Steele vs. Killer Khan Randy Savage vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Madison, WI – Dane County Coliseum – August 4, 1987 (7,557)WWF Superstars taping: Superstar Billy Graham pinned Butch Reed WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage WWF Superstars (Italian version): Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated Omar AtlasAll American Wrestling – 8/16/87: The Junkyard Dog fought Ron Bass to a double count-out at 8:07Prime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Sir Oliver Humperdink, where Humperdink said the manager in the WWF he couldn’t stand the most was Bobby Heenan; moments later, Heenan came out and insulted Humperdink, resulting in Humperdink shoving him off the platform (Humperdink’s debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87: Bob Orton Jr. defeated George Steele via disqualification at 3:03 after Steele hit Orton with a chair inside the ring, knocking him to the floor, and attempted to hit him a second time but missed and hit the ringpostAll American Wrestling – 8/23/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Shadows when Raymond scored the pin after a double team move off the top at 6:24All American Wrestling – 8/30/87: Paul Roma & Jim Powers (sub. for Rick Martel & Tom Zenk) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification when the champions illegally double teamed the challengers; Lanny Poffo & Don Muraco did commentary for the bout8/15/87 – included an interview segment with Bobby Heenan and Rick Rude in which Heenan said he would bring Paul Orndorff out the following week to say Rude had the superior body; featured the announcement that Johnny V had been rejected in the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Steve Lombardi with the flying elbowsmash at 2:38 WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Angie Minelli with a splash off the top in a non-title match at 2:33; before the bout, Sherri Martel announced she now wants to be known as Sensational Sherri Jake Roberts pinned Dave Wagner with the DDT at 2:37 Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Brady Boone & Sonny Rogers when Rogers submitted to Valentine figure-4 at 3:02 Rick Martel pinned Barry Horowitz with a crossbody from the middle rope at 2:29; after the bout the Islanders came to ringside and attacked Martel until Tito Santana, who was doing guest commentary at the Spanish announce table, made the save Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Jerry Allen with a cobra clutch into a Russian leg sweep at 1:51 (Dibiase’s TV in-ring return after an absence of 8 years)8/22/87 – included Bobby Heenan being fired by Paul Orndorff and Orndorff introducing his new manager as Sir Oliver Humperdink during an interview with Craig DeGeorge, where Heenan expected Orndorff to admit Rick Rude had the better body; featured the announcement that Mr. Fuji had been rejected in the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’; included Gene Okerlund interviewing Hulk Hogan, alongside the Minnesota Gov. Tommy Thompson; included an ‘Update’ segment showing the recent split between Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.; featured comments from Slick about his song ‘Jive Soul Bro’ on the upcoming Piledriver Album as well as comments from Rick Derringer and Tom Edmunds, the recording engineer: Ken Patera pinned Tom Stone at 2:08 with an elbow drop, moments after Patera hit a powerslam; Patera injured his arm while attempting the powerslam and was sidelined for 2 months as a result Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Jim Evans with a gorilla press slam at 2:35; after the bout, Reed called out Superstar Billy Graham who then came ringside and sent Reed and Slick out of the ring Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Sika & Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) via count-out at 4:06 after knocking both of their opponents to the floor; after the bout, Kamala and Sika attacked their opponents with Sika hitting the Samoan Drop on both and Kamala giving a top rope splash to both until referees eventually swarmed the ring The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jerry Allen & Mike Richards at the 53-second mark when Haku pinned Richards following diving headbutts from both Islanders; after the bout, Craig DeGeorge interviewed Rick Martel & Tito Santana in their locker room where they said they would now be forming a team known as ‘Strike Force’ Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Billy Golden at 1:38 with a kneedrop off the top after spitting green mist in his opponent’s eyes behind the referee’s back Koko B. Ware pinned Chris Curtis at the 34-second mark with the Ghostbuster8/29/87 – included the announcement that Bobby Heenan had been rejected in the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’, which left only Slick as a possible choice to be Bam Bam Bigelow’s manager; featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ted Dibiase & Virgil where Dibiase paid a fan $200 for kissing Virgil’s foot; included an ‘Update’ segment where Brutus Beefcake was shown receiving hair styling tips from famed hair stylist Sal Fodera; featured comments from the Honkytonk Man, where he stated he was the greatest IC Champion of all time and to forget about past champions such as Ricky Steamboat, Tito Santana, and Randy Savage; featured closing comments from Slick, where he said he would unveil Bam Bam Bigelow as his new wrestler the following week: Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:14 with the piledriver King Harley Race, Hercules, & Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Pete Sanchez, Rick Gantner, & Frankie DeFalco at 1:38 when DeFalco submitted to Rude’s backbreaker The Junkyard Dog pinned Terry Gibbs at 2:06 with a powerslam from the top rope The One Man Gang (w/ Slick & Nikolai Volkoff) defeated Arthur Washington & Jim Milliman in a handicap match at 1:36 after pinning both men at the same time after hitting Milliman with a front suplex, and then doing the same move to Washington so that he landed on top of his partner; the bout was scheduled as a tag match involving Volkoff but Slick asked Volkoff to step aside; during the bout, a photograph was shown, showing Slick & Bam Bam Bigelow together Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated Steve Lombardi & Tiger Chung Lee at 2:49 when Santana pinned Lee with the flying forearm (Strike Force’s debut) Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Sivi Afi & Scott Casey at 2:14 when Ax pinned Afi following the DecapitationWWF @ LaCrosse, WI – LaCrosse Center – August 5, 1987 (6,547)Wrestling Challenge taping:Wrestling Challenge (French version) – 8/16/87: Steve Strong (Steve DiSalvo) pinned Frankie DeFalco at 2:21 with a tombstonePrime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87: Ron Bass pinned Sonny Rogers with the Pedigree at 1:59Prime Time Wrestling – 8/17/87: The Junkyard Dog fought the One Man Gang (w/ Slick) to a double disqualification at 6:32 when the referee was knocked down as both men were fighting over Slick’s caneWrestling Spotlight – 8/22/87: Outback Jack pinned Iron Mike Sharpe with a bulldog at 4:40All American Wrestling – 8/23/87: Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) pinned Jerry Allen with a backbreaker at 6:55Prime Time Wrestling – 8/24/87: King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Brutus Beefcake at around 11:30 with a knee lift to the back as Beefcake was distracted by Heenan on the ring apron; after the bout, Beefcake put Heenan in the sleeper and was about to cut his hair before Race pulled his manager from the ring8/16/87 – included Ted Dibiase offering a woman $100 to get down on all fours and bark like a dog; after she did what he said, he kept the money for himself after claiming she didn’t do a good enough job; included a ‘Special Report’ showcasing the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’ with comments from Freddie Blassie sayng he doesn’t know what’s happening or what Bam Bam should do; included the Hart Foundation / Powers & Roma match from the 8/8 Superstars: Superstar Billy Graham defeated Barry Horowitz via submission at 1:40 with a bearhug The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Billy Beauman at 2:52 with the front suplex Koko B. Ware pinned Brian Costello at 3:23 with the Ghostbuster Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Sonny Rogers via submission after 57 seconds Kamala & Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) defeated Lanny Poffo & Mark Richards at 2:00 when Kamala pinned Richards with a splash off the top8/23/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis : Chris Curtis pinned Mr. Washington (sub. for Ted Dibiase) with a backbreaker at 1:05; prior to the bout, Dibiase, with Virgil, cut an in-ring promo claiming he wasn’t going to bother wrestling Curtis and paid another wrestler to be his replacement, then introducing Washington who he then paid $5,000; after the bout, Virgil held Washington while Dibiase took his money back, with the two then double teaming Washington before leaving the ring (Most Embarrassing Moments) The Junkyard Dog pinned Rick Renslow with a powerslam at 2:25 Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Sivi Afi & Jim Evans at 3:37 when Evans submitted to Valentine’s figure-4 Randy Savage pinned Scott Casey with the flying elbowdrop at 2:21 Brutus Beefcake defeated Tom Stone at 1:16 with the sleeper Demolition defeated Pete Sanchez & Omar Atlas at 1:21 following the Decapitation on Sanchez8/30/87 – included footage from the 8/22 Superstars of Paul Orndorff firing Bobby Heenan as his manager for the second time: Jake Roberts pinned Steve Lombardi with the DDT at 4:34 Killer Khan pinned Jack Milliman at 1:54 Butch Reed pinned Brady Boone with a press slam at 3:54 George Steele defeated Rick Gantner via submission with the flying hammerlock at 1:59 King Harley Race & Hercules defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Hercules pinned Powers at 3:25 Koko B. Ware pinned Dave Wagner with the Ghostbuster at 1:36Dark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer KhanWWF @ Sioux Falls, SD – Civic Center – August 6, 1987 Included Brutus Beefcake and a battle royalWWF @ Green Bay, WI – Brown County Arena – August 6, 1987 Outback Jack pinned Frenchy Martin (sub. for Sika) Rick Martel vs. Tama Davey Boy Smith & Scott Casey (sub. for B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell) defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Kig Harley Race pinned Jerry Allen Dino Bravo pinned Brutus Beefcake The Junkyard Dog defeated Killer Khan via disqualification Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan)WWF @ Odessa, TX – Ector County Coliseum – August 6, 1987 Sam Houston fought Jose Estrada to a draw Pepe Gonzalez, the Karate Kid, & Butch Cassidy defeated Cowboy Lang, Little Tokyo, & Lord Littlebrook The Dingo Warrior defeated Terry Gibbs Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis The One Man Gang defeated George Steele via disqualification Randy Savage defeated Butch ReedWWF @ Little Rock, AR – Coliseum – August 7, 1987 (2,452) Pepe Gonzalez, the Karate Kid, & Butch Cassidy vs. Cowboy Lang, Little Tokyo, & Lord Littlebrook George Steele vs. the One Man Gang Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Randy Savage vs. Butch ReedWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – August 7, 1987 (4,745) Brad Rheingans (sub. for Johnny V) defeated Lanny Poffo Outback Jack defeated Sika Rick Rude defeated Omar Atlas WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Angie Minelli & Theresa Dubose The Junkyard Dog vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man Davey Boy Smith & Jim Brunzell vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Brutus Beefcake vs. Dino Bravo WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer KhanWWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – August 7, 1987 (3,527) David Sammartino fought Frenchy Martin to a draw Scott Casey defeated Brady Boone Tony Greco defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Baron Von Raschke (sub. for Superstar Billy Graham) defeated King Harley Race via disqualification Rick Martel defeated Tama; the match was originally scheduled as Rick Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the Islanders Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) defeated Hercules in a Old Fashioned whipping match; due to pre-match stipulations, Graham earned the right to whip Heenan 10 times after the matchWWF @ Duluth, MN – Arena – August 8, 1987 (3,829) Sika pinned Brad Rheingans Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Outback Jack Davey Boy Smith (sub. for B. Brian Blair) & Jim Brunzell defeated Frenchy Martin (sub. for Don Muraco) & Bob Orton Jr. Don Muraco pinned David Sammartino Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo via disqualification Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned Hercules; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to the Crusher for the duration of the boutWWF @ Jackson, MS – State Fair Coliseum – August 8, 1987 Pepe Gonzalez, the Karate Kid, & Butch Cassidy vs. Cowboy Lang, Little Tokyo, & Lord Littlebrook The Dingo Warrior vs. Terry Gibbs Ted Dibiase vs. Sam Houston George Steele vs. the One Man Gang Tito Santana vs. Butch Reed WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. the Junkyard DogWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – August 8, 1987 (14,967) Brady Boone pinned Jose Estrada Lanny Poffo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Angie Minelli & Theresa DuBois Rick Martel pinned Tama at 17:11; after the bout, Martel was double teamed by both Islanders King Harley Race pinned Scott Casey Rick Rude pinned Tony Garea (sub. for SD Jones) Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis via count-out at 4:46 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage (w/ Danny Davis & Miss Elizabeth) at 7:49; Mr. T was the special referee for the boutWWF @ Milwaukee, WI – State Fair – August 9, 1987 (matinee) (7,831) Rick Rude defeated Lanny Poffo Killer Khan pinned Hillbilly Jim Davey Boy Smith & Jim Brunzell vs. Bob Orton Jr. & Frenchy Martin (sub. for Don Muraco) Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) defeated Hercules; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to the Crusher for the duration of the bout Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned SikaWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – August 9, 1987 (3,594) Scott Casey pinned Frenchy Martin Rick Rude pinned Lanny Poffo Davey Boy Smith (sub. for B. Brian Blair) & Jim Brunzell defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.; after the bout, Muraco and Orton fought each other Danny Davis pinned Koko B. Ware after hitting him with a foreign object Killer Khan pinned Hillbilly Jim Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned Hercules in a whipping match; the Crusher was handcuffed to Bobby Heenan for the duration of the boutWWF @ Lafayette, LA – Cajun Dome – August 9, 1987 Little Coco, Pepe Gonzales, & Karate Chris Dube vs. Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Cowboy Lang The Dingo Warrior vs. Terry Gibbs The One Man Gang vs. George Steele Butch Reed vs. Tito Santana Ted Dibiase vs. the Junkyard DogWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – August 9, 1987 (7,401) David Sammartino pinned Johnny K-9 Brady Boone pinned Jose Estrada SD Jones pinned Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Angie Minelli & Theresa DuBois Nikolai Volkoff defeated Outback Jack Rick Martel pinned Haku; after the bout, Martel was double teamed by both Islanders Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo via disqualification WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification after Savage hit the refereeWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – August 10, 1987 (11,811) Dino Bravo pinned the Junkyard Dog Tito Santana defeated Steve Strong (sub. for Butch Reed) via count-out Pat Patterson pinned Brutus Beefcake after hitting him with a foreign object Rick Rude pinned Scott Casey Steve Strong (sub. for Killer Khan) defeated Outback Jack Superstar Billy Graham defeated Iron Mike Sharpe via submission with the bearhug SD Jones pinned the Red Demon Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart to win the titles when Jacques pinned Hart after hitting him with Jimmy Hart’s megaphone behind the referee’s back; the title change was never mentioned on WWF TV and the belts were later returned to the champions due to the use of the megaphone; footage of the title change was shown on Montreal TV news stationsWWF @ Toledo, OH – Sports Arena – August 10, 1987 Little Coco, Pepe Gonzales, & Karate Chris Dube defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Cowboy Lang David Sammartino pinned Tiger Chung Lee Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin Rick Martel pinned Tama Danny Davis defeated George Steele via disqualification Randy Savage (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned HerculesWWF @ Bristol, CT – Muzzy Field – August 10, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Terry Gibbs Bam Bam Bigelow vs. Lanny Poffo Sam Houston vs. Jose Estrada Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. Nikolai Volkoff Davey Boy Smith & Jim Brunzell vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Koko B. Ware vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Youngstown, OH – Beeghly Center – August 11, 1987 Rick Martel pinned Tama David Sammartino fought Tiger Chung Lee to a draw Hillbilly Jim defeated Dino Bravo via count-out The Junkyard Dog defeated Killer Khan via disqualification Cowboy Lang, Pepe Gonzalez, & Karate Kris Dube defeated Little Tokyo, Lord Littlebrook, & Cowboy Lang Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned Hercules in a whipping matchWWF @ Staten Island, NY – Wagner College – August 11, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Terry Gibbs Sam Houston vs. Jose Estrada Bam Bam Bigelow vs. Lanny Poffo Tito Santana vs. Nikolai Volkoff Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Koko B. Ware vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Rochester, NY – War Memorial Arena – August 11, 1987 (1,905) Brad Rheingans pinned Frenchy Martin Rick Rude defeated Scott Casey Outback Jack defeated the Red Demon Brutus Beefcake defeated Danny Davis SD Jones pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Superstar Billy Graham pinned Ron Bass Davey Boy Smith & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualificationWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – August 12, 1987 (1,780) SD Jones pinned Brad Rheingans Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr.; after the bout, Orton and Muraco fought each other Superstar Billy Graham pinned Ron Bass Brutus Beefcake defeated Danny Davis via submission with the sleeper Scott Casey pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Outback Jack defeated the Red Demon WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Suffern, NY – Rockland County Fair Indoor Showcase Arena – August 12, 1987 (2,722) The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Jose Estrada pinned Sam Houston Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Lanny Poffo Jake Roberts pinned Nikolai Volkoff Rick Rude fought Tito Santana to a 12-minute draw The One Man Gang pinned Koko B. Ware Rick Martel pinned Tama; the match was advertised as Martel & Tom Zenk vs. the IslandersWWF @ Monaca, PA – Golden Dome – August 12, 1987 (986) Cowboy Lang, Pepe Gonzalez, & Karate Chris Dube defeated Little Tokyo, Lord Littlebrook, & Cowboy Lang Paul Roma pinned Steve Lombardi David Sammartino pinned Tiger Chung Lee Bruno Sammartino (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned Hercules in a Whipping Match The Junkyard Dog defeated Killer Khan via disqualification Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated Dino Bravo via count-outWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – August 13, 1987 Hercules vs. ? (sub. for Ken Patera) (old fashioned whipping match) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – August 13, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Jose Estrada Sam Houston vs. Terry Gibbs Bam Bam Bigelow vs. SD Jones Lanny Poffo vs. Rick Rude The One Man Gang vs. Koko B. Ware Rick Martel vs. Haku or Tama Tito Santana vs. Danny Davis (lumberjack match)WWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – August 13, 1987 Brad Rheingans vs. the Red Demon Paul Roma vs. Tiger Chung Lee Scott Casey vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Outback Jack vs. Frenchy Martin Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Don Muraco & Bob Orton Jr. Brutus Beefcake vs. Dino Bravo Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch Reed Jake Roberts vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Topeka, KS – Kansas Expocentre – August 14, 19871st card held in Topeka Tiger Chung Lee defeated ? King Harley Race defeated the Junkyard Dog WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jake RobertsWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – August 14, 1987 Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Brad Rheingans The Dingo Warrior defeated Jose Estrada Ted Dibiase defeated Sivi Afi Hercules defeated Outback Jack via disqualification Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated the One Man Gang via disqualification Rick Martel defeated Tama; after the bout, Tama & Haku attacked Martel Tito Santana defeated Danny Davis in a lumberjack matchWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – August 14, 1987 (5,741) Rick Rude pinned SD Jones Greg Valentine pinned Scott Casey Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Jerry Allen pinned Barry Horowitz Kamala pinned Koko B. Ware Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo via disqualification when Greg Valentine interfered Brady Boone pinned Terry Gibbs Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) (w/ Ken Patera) pinned Paul Orndorff; after the bout, Patera and Graham took turns whipping Bobby Heenan; Bruno Sammartino was handcuffed to Heenan for the duration of the boutWWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Convention Center – August 15, 1987 (matinee) (8,302; sell out) David Sammartino vs. Shadow #2 Chavo Guerrero vs. Shadow #1 Jim Powers vs. Tiger Chung Lee Paul Roma vs. Frenchy Martin George Steele vs. Danny Davis King Harley Race vs. the Junkyard Dog Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Randy SavageWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – August 15, 1987 (7,004)Televised on NESN – included Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary alongside Jimmy Hart, Slick, and Johnny V on various matches during the card: The Dingo Warrior pinned Barry Horowitz at 4:42 with a gorilla press slam and splashPrime Time Wrestling – 8/31/87: Paul Orndorff pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 8:57 with a clotheslinePrime Time Wrestling – 8/31/87: Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Sivi Afi at 6:28 after applying the Million $ Dream, then letting go to gain the pinfall; after the bout, Dibiase paid a woman $300 to kiss his footPrime Time Wrestling – 8/31/87: Bruno Sammartino, Jake Roberts, & Tito Santana defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) in an elimination match at 15:05; Roberts was counted-out at 7:04 after Honky hit him with Jimmy Hart’s megaphone on the floor; Santana pinned Bret with the flying forearm at 10:11; Neidhart pinned Santana at 12:19 after Jimmy Hart tripped him from the outside; Sammartino pinned Neidhart at 14:02 after Jimmy Hart accidentally hit him with the megaphone; Bruno pinned Honky with a knee to the headPrime Time Wrestling – 8/31/87: Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Brady Boone at 9:34 after knocking Boone out with a loaded forearmPrime Time Wrestling – 2/11/88: Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated the One Man Gang via count-out at 12:47 after OMG was distracted by Beaver on the floor; after the bout, OMG attacked Beaver and splashed him inside the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 8/31/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Johnny V & Dino Bravo at 8:28 when Raymond pinned Johnny V after Bravo accidentally hit a legdrop on his partner while preventing a coverWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – August 15, 1987 (5,102)Televised on the PRISM Network – included Dick Graham on commentary with Gorilla Monsoon for the first 5 matches and Craig DeGeorge for the remainder of the show: Jerry Allen pinned Jose Estrada with a roll up at 11:59 WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyrePrime Time Wrestling – 9/17/87: Rick Rude defeated SD Jones via submission with a backbreaker at 10:22; after the bout, Greg Valentine came to the ring and congratulated Rude; moments later, Brutus Beefcake came out and interrupted Rude as he was posing, with an upset Rude then having to be held back by several referees Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification at 12:55 when Rick Rude interfered as Beefcake had the sleeper applied; after the bout, Rude continued to attack Beefcake and held him up for Valentine to hit him but Beefcake moved out of the way and Valentine accidentally hit Rude instead Koko B. Ware defeated Kamala (w/ Kimchee) via count-out at 6:07 when Kamala ran into the ringpost as Koko moved out of the way Haku (w/ Tama) pinned Rick Martel at 14:31 after Tama interfered and hit Martel with a chair from the outside Brad Reinghans pinned Terry Gibbs at 5:23 with a rolling cradle Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) (w/ Ken Patera) pinned Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) in a whipping match at 6:50 after reversing Hercules’ powerslam attempt from the outside into a cradle; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Mr. T for the duration of the bout; after the match, Hercules tried to protect his manager but was ordered to leave the ring or face a 6-month suspension and fined $10,000; then, due to pre-match stipulations, Heenan was whipped with a belt by Graham and Patera; had Hercules won, Heenan would have been able to whip Patera with the beltWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – August 15, 1987 (9,716 paid) David Sammartino defeated Tiger Chung Lee Chavo Guerrero defeated Frenchy Martin Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Danny Davis defeated George Steele via disqualification King Harley Race defeated the Junkyard Dog Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Randy SavageWWF @ Tampa, FL – SunDome – August 16, 1987Channel 28 general manager Jim Major was the guest ring announcer Brad Rheingans vs. Ron Bass Sivi Afi & Jerry Allen vs. the Shadows Davey Boy Smith vs. Hercules Koko B. Ware vs. Kamala Rick Martel vs. Haku or Tama Jake Roberts vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Denver, CO – McNichols Arena – August 16, 1987 (6,974) David Sammartino pinned Terry Gibbs SD Jones pinned Frenchy Martin Chavo Guerrero pinned Jose Estrada Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell when Brunzell was pinned after Mr. Fuji interfered and hit him with his cane Danny Davis defeated George Steele via disqualification after Steele hit referee Dave Hebner WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Ken Patera) (w/ Ken Patera) pinned King Harley Race after Patera hit Race with his arm cast WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Randy Savage; Mr. T was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ Portland, ME – Civic Center – August 16, 1987 (2,970) Paul Roma defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Ted Dibiase defeated Jim Powers Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Brady Boone The Dingo Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via count-out The One Man Gang defeated Hillbilly Jim Tito Santana & the Junkyard Dog defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Hillbilly Jim won an 18-man battle royal; participants were everyone else who competed on the cardWWF @ Rochester, MN – Mayo Civic Center – August 17, 1987 WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Velvet McIntyre SD Jones vs. Frenchy Martin Chavo Guerrero vs. Jose Estrada David Sammartino vs. Terry Gibbs George Steele vs. Mr. Fuji Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Randy Savage vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Manchester, NH – JFK Coliseum – August 17, 1987 Jim Powers defeated Barry Horowitz The Dingo Warrior defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Paul Roma Ted Dibiase defeated Brady Boone Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau The One Man Gang defeated Hillbilly Jim The Junkyard Dog & Tito Santana defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualificationWWF @ Miami, FL – Convention Center – August 17, 1987 Ron Bass vs. ? Brad Rheingans vs. Steve Lombardi Sivi Afi vs. Shadow #1 Jerry Allen vs. Shadow #2 Davey Boy Smith vs. Hercules Rick Martel vs. Haku or Tama WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Koko B. Ware Jake Roberts fought Kamala to a double count-outWWF @ Utica, NY – Memorial Auditorium – August 18, 1987 (2,157) Ted Dibiase pinned Lanny Poffo SD Jones pinned Frenchy Martin Chavo Guerrero pinned Jose Estrada David Sammartino fought Terry Gibbs to a draw Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau The One Man Gang defeated George Steele via disqualification Randy Savage defeated King Harley Race via disqualificationWWF @ Warwick, RI – Musical Theatre – August 18, 1987 Pete Doherty pinned Barry Horowitz The Dingo Warrior pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Brady Boone Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Nikolai Volkoff defeated Hillbilly Jim via count-out WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated the Junkyard Dog & Tito Santana via disqualificationWWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditoirum – August 18, 1987 (3,117) Steve Lombardi defeated Joe Mirto Ron Bass defeated Brad Rheingans Tama defeated Rick Martel Davey Boy Smith defeated Hercules The Shadows defeated Jerry Allen & Sivi Afi Koko B. Ware defeated Kamala Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Little Silver, NJ – Red Bank Regional High School – August 19, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Barry Horowitz Brady Boone vs. Bam Bam Bigelow Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) vs. Nikolai Volkoff Billy Jack Haynes vs. King Harley Race Kamala & Sika vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim NeidhartWWF @ Syracuse, NY – War Memorial – August 19, 1987 Randy Savage vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Erie, PA – Civic Center – August 20, 1987 SD Jones pinned Terry Gibbs Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau when Ax pinned Jacques David Sammartino fought Jose Estrada to a draw Chavo Guerrero pinned Frenchy Martin Ted Dibiase pinned Tito Santana; after the bout, Dibiase paid a fan $300 to kiss his foot The Junkyard Dog defeated Ron Bass via disqualification Randy Savage pinned the One Man Gang after guest referee George Steele tried to grab a steel chair away from OMG; Steele gave OMG a fast count to end the matchWWF @ Wildwood, NJ – Convention Hall – August 20, 1987 The Dingo Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Davey Boy Smith fought King Harley Race to a draw Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Brady Boone Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Hillbilly Jim (w/ Little Beaver) defeated Nikolai Volkoff WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Kamala & SikaWWF @ Louisville, KY – Freedom Hall – August 20, 1987Held as part of the Kentucky State Fair Jake Roberts vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man Rick Martel vs. Haku or Tama WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer KhanWWF @ Birmingham, AL – Jefferson Civic Center – August 21, 1987 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan Also included Brutus Beefcake, Koko B. Ware, King Harley Race and DemolitionWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Indiana State Fairgrounds – August 21, 1987 Iron Mike Sharpe vs. Brad Rheingans WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Velvet McIntyre Rick Martel vs. Haku Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer KhanWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – August 21, 1987 Brad Rheingans pinned Terry Gibbs at 7:45 with a small package Jose Estrada fought Chavo Guerrero to a 20-minute time-limit draw Tama pinned Lanny Poffo at 10:54 with a diving headbutt Haku pinned Rick Martel at 9:16 when Tama interfered; after the bout, Tito Santana made the save WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Randy Savage via disqualification at 9:51 when Savage hit the referee Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 5:04 Tito Santana pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 9:38 The Junkyard Dog & George Steele defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via count-out at 7:01WWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – August 21, 1987 (2,000) Brady Boone pinned Frenchy Martin Steve Lombardi & Barry Horowitz defeated Sivi Afi & Scott Casey Sika pinned SD Jones Ted Dibiase pinned Davey Boy Smith at 10:00 Superstar Billy Graham fought Butch Reed to a double disqualification Jake Roberts defeated Kamala via count-out Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Ken Patera) (w/ Ken Patera) pinned King Kong Bundy in a whipping match; after the bout, Haynes and Patera took turns whipping Bobby Heenan; Heenan was handcuffed to Mr. T for the duration of the boutWWF @ Atlanta, GA – Omni – August 22, 1987 (2,200) David Sammartino pinned Terry Gibbs SD Jones pinned Frenchy Martin Outback Jack pinned Tiger Chung Lee Jake Roberts defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out Nikolai Volkoff pinned Joe Mirto Paul Orndorff (sub. for Ken Patera) (w/ Ken Patera) pinned King Harley Race after Patera hit Race with his arm cast; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Mr. T for the duration of the bout Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows (Randy Colley & Jose Luis Rivera) Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis with the Ghostbuster; Mr. T was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – August 22, 1987 (15,000) Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Jerry Allen Barry Horowitz & Steve Lombardi defeated Sivi Afi & Brady Boone Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Ted Dibiase defeated Davey Boy Smith Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification when Johnny V interfered WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Kamala & Sika WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer Khan in a Mongolian Stretcher MatchWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – August 22, 1987 (18,000)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary, with Pete Doherty joining the commentary team for the Martel / Haku, Steamboat / Honky, and Graham / Reed matches; included Howard Finkel introducing Andre the Giant who came halfway down the aisle before returning backstage, unhappy with the reception he had received; included Gorilla Monsoon conducting backstage interviews with Pete Doherty about being the newest member of the WWF broadcast team; included Monsoon interviewing Superstar Billy Graham, Butch Reed & Slick and George Steele & the Junkyard Dog about their matches later in the show; included Lord Alfred Hayes conducting a backstage interview with Demolition prior to their match:Prime Time Wrestling – 9/7/87: Tama pinned Scott Casey at 11:23 with a splash from the middle turnbuckleAll American Wrestling – 9/6/87: Tito Santana fought Ron Bass to a 20-minute time limit draw at 19:45; the bell rung moments after Santana hit the flying forearm knocking Bass out of the ring; after the bout, Santana challenged Bass to 5 more minutes to decide a winner with Bass going back to the locker room instead WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre at 14:21 with a back suplex after the challenger argued with the referee over a slow count Haku pinned Rick Martel at 9:19 after Tama came ringside and hit Martel with a chair; after the bout, Tito Santana made the save; prior to the bout, Martel went back and brought Santana to ringside with him after the Islanders refused to let Martel enter the ring, with the referee ordering both Santana and Tama backstage before the match could beginPrime Time Wrestling – 2/1/88: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Ricky Steamboat in a lumberjack match at 11:06 after hitting the challenger with Hart’s megaphone when the referee was distracted putting George Steele out of the ring after he had counted Steamboat’s pinfall attempt on Honky himself when the referee was distracted by Hart on the apron; lumberjacks included: the Islanders, Tito Santana, George Steele, the Junkyard Dog, Scott Casey, Lanny Poffo, Ron Bass, and Jose Estrada; after the bout all the lumberjacks brawled until the babyfaces cleared the heels from the ring Superstar Billy Graham fought Butch Reed (w/ Slick) to a double disqualification at 8:56 when Slick interfered and hit Graham with his cane as Reed was caught in the bearhug; after the bout, Graham reapplied the hold and it took a ring-full of officials – among them Pat Patterson, Terry Garvin, Arnold Skaaland and Gorilla Monsoon (who left the commentary table) – to convince him to release the hold; during the melee Monsoon elbowed Slick, knocking him to the mat; Graham would have won the match via disqualification due to Slick’s interference but because he refused to release the bearhug after the bout, he was also disqualified (Graham’s MSG return after a 4-year absence)Wrestling Spotlight – 9/5/87: Lanny Poffo (sub. for Chavo Guerrero Sr.) pinned Jose Estrada at 7:42 with a somersault splash off the topPrime Time Wrestling – 9/17/87: Demolition defeated the Junkyard Dog & George Steele via disqualification at 6:10 when Steele hit Smash with a steel chair after the JYD was relentlessly double teamed (George ‘The Animal’ Steele)WWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – August 23, 1987 Barry Horowitz & Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Scott Hall & Jerry Allen Ron Bass defeated Sivi Afi Ted Dibiase defeated Davey Boy Smith Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Jake Roberts fought Butch Reed to a draw Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-outWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – August 23, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Sika Chavo Guerrero vs. Haku Rick Martel vs. Tama Jim Powers & Paul Roma vs. Demolition Tito Santana vs. Nikolai Volkoff King Kong Bundy vs. Kamala Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) vs. King Harley Race (Bobby Heenan handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the bout)WWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – August 23, 1987 (8,000) David Sammartino pinned Terry Gibbs Sam Houston defeated Tiger Chung Lee Outback Jack & SD Jones defeated the Shadows (Randy Colley & Jose Luis Rivera) Paul Orndorff (sub. for Koko B. Ware) defeated Killer Khan Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification The Junkyard Dog & George Steele defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via count-outWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – August 24, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Sika Jim Powers & Paul Roma vs. Demolition Chavo Guerrero vs. Haku Rick Martel vs. Tama Tito Santana vs. Nikolai Volkoff King Kong Bundy vs. Kamala Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for an injured Ken Patera) vs. King Harley Race (Old fashion whipping match with Patera Bobby Heenan handcuffed together at ringside)WWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – August 24, 1987 (3,500) Jerry Allen defeated Jose Estrada Sivi Afi & Brady Boone defeated Barry Horowitz & Iron Mike Sharpe Ron Bass defeated Scott Casey Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Ted Dibiase defeated Davey Boy Smith Butch Reed defeated Randy Savage via count-out Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Santa Cruz, CA – Civic Auditorium – August 24, 1987 (1,500) Sam Houston pinned Tiger Chung Lee Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Terry Gibbs SD Jones & Outback Jack defeated the Shadows Brutus Beefcake defeated Killer Khan via disqualification after sustaining a low blow WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-outWWF @ San Francisco, CA – Cow Palace – August 25, 1987 (14,700; 13,200 paid; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated George Steele (sub. for Ken Patera) & Billy Jack Haynes (w/ an injured Ken Patera wearing a cast on his arm) at 9:31 when Smash pinned Haynes after Ax hit him in the back of the neck with Mr. Fuji’s cane as Smash was caught in the full nelson; after the bout, Patera and Steele cleared the ring (Best of the WWF Vol. 15) Koko B. Ware pinned Barry Horowitz Brutus Beefcake defeated Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification when Hart interfered Billy Jack Haynes pinned Rip Oliver with a backslide at 4:30 Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 4:00 Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Omar Atlas following several flying elbowsmashes; the bout was taped to air in the third hour of Challenge tapings but was re-taped the following day due to Atlas playing a babyface when he was supposed to be heel WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer Khan via count-out9/6/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Bobby Heenan, where Heenan introduced Andre the Giant but Andre quickly went backstage after being heavily booed: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Jerry Monti at 3:28 in a non-title match following the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Steve Lombardi & Terry Gibbs at 4:15 when Santana pinned Lombardi with the flying forearm The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Billy Anderson at 2:36 with the front suplex Paul Orndorff (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Rex Farmer at 2:33 with the piledriver Brutus Beefcake defeated Mike Starr via submission with the sleeper at 1:57 The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Steve Gatorwolf & Jesse Cortez at 2:52 following a double headbutt9/13/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart; featured footage from the previous week’s Superstars in which Bam Bam Bigelow named Sir Oliver Humperdink as his manager as well as footage from the Bigelow / Volkoff match: Superstar Billy Graham defeated Tim Patterson via submission at 1:47 with the bearhug Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Ricky Ataki & Pete Ketchum at 3:08 following the Decapitation on Ataki Jake Roberts pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:35 with the DDT Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated Lanny Poffo via submission with a leglock at 2:21 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart & Danny Davis defeated Scott Casey, Sivi Afi, & Carl Schmidt at 2:25 when Davis pinned Schmidt with a splash off the top9/20/87 – included the Randy Savage / Omar Atlas match taped the following day; featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ken Patera: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the Shadows at 4:10 after B. Brian Blair hit the Bee Sting flying elbow Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Darrell Nickel at 1:55 with the flying kneedrop after spraying green mist into his opponent’s eyes Don Muraco pinned Tiger Chung Lee with a tombstone at 2:49 King Harley Race, Hercules, Rick Rude, & King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Brady Boone, Dusty Wolfe, Rudy Ryder, & SD Jones at 3:50 when Bundy pinned Ryder with an elbow off the middle turnbuckle Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Jerry Allen at 3:46 with a clothesline off the topWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – August 26, 1987 (9,000; sell out)WWF Superstars taping:Prime Time Wrestling – 9/7/87: Bob Orton Jr. pinned Jerry Allen at 5:19 with the superplex; prior to the bout, Orton cut an in-ring promo on Don Muraco, causing Muraco to appear at ringside until he was held back by referees; Gorilla Monsoon & Mike McGuirk provided commentary for the match (McGuirk’s debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 9/7/87: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau via count-out at 9:33 when Jacques chased Davis backstage after Davis attacked Raymond on the floor; Bruce Prichard & Mike McGuirk provided commentary for the match (Prichard’s debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 9/17/87: Outback Jack & SD Jones defeated Rudy Ryder & Darrell Nickell at 3:46 when Jack pinned Nickell with a bulldogPrime Time Wrestling – 9/17/87: Tito Santana defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at 9:13 when Hart entered the ring with Honky’s guitar as the champion was caught in the figure-4Wrestling Challenge – 9/20/87: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Omar Atlas with the flying elbowsmash at 2:509/5/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Slick & Nikolai Volkoff, with Slick then introducing Bam Bam Bigelow after believing he had won the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’; moments later, Sir Oliver Humperdink appeared instead and introduced Bigelow; Bigelow then came out, said Slick would never be his manager, punched out Volkoff, and announced Humperdink was his new manager; included comments from Ken Patera who was shown wearing an arm cast, after allegedly being injured by the Heenan Family; included an ‘Update’ segment showing the incident where Paul Orndorff fired Bobby Heenan as his manager; included comments from the Honkytonk Man where he mentioned how Randy Savage was upset over the comments Honky made the previous week about him being the greatest IC Champion of all time, with Honky saying he could sing, dance and wrestle much better than Savage; featured closing comments from Slick & Nikolai Volkoff about Volkoff’s match with Bam Bam Bigelow the following week: Jake Roberts pinned Dusty Wolfe with the DDT at 3:34 Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Jim Powers, Paul Roma, & Brady Boone at 3:13 when Boone submitted to a Boston Crab from Davis Don Muraco pinned Tim Patterson at 2:05 with the tombstone Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Mike Starr at 1:43 with a kneedrop off the top, after spitting the green mist in his opponent’s eyes behind the referee’s back Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 2:44 with the flying elbowsmash B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Steve Lombardi & Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:59 after Brunzell hit Lombardi with a dropkick as Blair held the opponent9/12/87 – included Ted Dibiase having a kid from the audience do 10 push ups for him in exchange for $300, but when the kid could only do 8 Dibiase refused to pay him; featured unseen footage following Randy Savage’s match last week, with Savage threatening Jimmy Hart in his dressing room, telling Hart to tell the Honkytonk Man to stop talking about him after Honky stated he was the greatest IC champion of all time and all the former champions, including Savage, were upset over it; featured comments from Larry Klein – producer of American Bandstand who praised the Piledriver Album; featured comments from Bobby Heenan about being on the cover of the October WWF Magazine; included an ‘Update’ segment focusing on Superstar Billy Graham’s injury and comeback: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) at the 4-minute mark with a flying headbutt (Bigelow’s TV wrestling debut) Koko B. Ware & Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Billy Anderson, Leroy Malion, & Rudy Ryder at 2:17 when Koko pinned Malion with the Ghostbuster Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan, King Kong Bundy, King Harley Race, Hercules, & Andre the Giant) defeated Jerry Monti via submission with the backbreaker at the 25-second mark; prior to the bout, Heenan introduced Andre who then made his way to ringside WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Steve Gatorwolf at 2:11 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Sivi Afi at 3:02 with a clothesline off the top Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Shadows at 3:23 when Santana got the pin with the flying forearm9/19/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Demolition & Mr. Fuji, discussing their song from the Piledriver album by Rick Derringer, set for release on 9/21; featured an ‘Update’ segment focusing on the ‘Battle for Bam Bam’; included comments from Tommy Nast, producer of ‘Power Cuts’, who praised the Piledriver album; featured closing comments from WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in which he said the following week he would give 10 good reasons why he is the greatest IC champion of all time: Brutus Beefcake defeated Ricky Ataki via submission with the sleeper at 2:19 Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned SD Jones at 4:16 with a back elbow from the middle turnbuckle Jake Roberts pinned Terry Gibbs at 4:14 with the DDT; after the bout, Danny Davis came ringside and attempted to steal Damien until Roberts chased him off The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Jesse Cortez at the 50-second mark with the front suplex The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Scott Casey & Lanny Poffo at 4:22 when Tama pinned Casey following simultaneous diving headbutts Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Barry Horowitz at 3:16 with the piledriverDark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated the One Man GangWWF @ Ventura, CA – County Fairgrounds Main Arena – August 27, 1987 The Fabulous Moolah vs. WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri The Shadows vs. Chavo Guerrero & Jerry Allen Ron Bass vs. Lanny Poffo Demolition vs. Paul Roma & Jim Powers Ted Dibiase defeated the Junkyard Dog Jake Roberts vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man GangWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – August 27, 1987 The Dingo Warrior defeated Frenchy Martin B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Paul Orndorff defeated Randy Savage Brutus Beefcake defeated Sika King Kong Bundy defeated Kimchee (sub. for Kamala) Nikolai Volkoff defeated the Dingo Warrior (sub. for Koko B. Ware) Tito Santana vs. HerculesWWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – August 27, 1987 Outback Jack vs. Tiger Chung Lee George Steele vs. Killer Khan Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Billy Jack Haynes vs. Butch Reed Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) vs. King Harley Race in an old fashioned whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the boutWWF @ Salt Lake City, UT – Salt Palace – August 28, 1987 (3,718) Outback Jack pinned Tiger Chung Lee Rick Rude pinned Scott Casey Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Butch Reed pinned Billy Jack Haynes Killer Khan defeated George Steele via disqualification Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned King Harley Race in an old fashioned whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the boutWWF @ El Paso, TX – Civic Center – August 28, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Frenchy Martin Ron Bass vs. Lanny Poffo Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows Randy Savage vs. Paul Orndorff Koko B. Ware vs. Nikolai Volkoff WWF Tag Team Champions Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell (Danny Davis as guest ring announcer) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Jake RobertsPaul Boesch Retirement Show – Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – August 28, 1987 (12,000; sell out)Featured Bruce Prichard, Mike McGuirk, & Pete Doherty on commentary; included appearances from Ox Anderson, Cyclone Anoya, Red Bastien, Jim Casey, Tiger Conway Sr., Verne Gagne, Stu Hart, Jesse James, Gene Kiniski, Nick & Jerry Kozak, Ernie Ladd, Jose Lothario, Bronco Lubich, Billy Red Lyons, Boris Malenko, Mike Mazurki, Vince McMahon, Danny McShane, Sputnick Monroe, Pat Patterson, Lou Thesz, and Jack Tunney, with Boesch making a retirement speech during the later part of the show; featured Ted Dibiase having a kid sing “Yellow Rose of Texas”, saying he would pay him $300, but later refused to pay after saying he wasn’t satisfied; included Bruce Prichard conducting an interview with Johnny V in which he was shown almost bald, following the hair vs. hair match from earlier in the card, with Johnny saying Greg Valentine would get even with Beefcake: Sam Houston pinned Steve Lombardi with a bulldog at 13:56International Wrestling Challenge: Bruno Sammartino defeated Hercules via count-out at 6:47 following a backdrop to the floor and then knocking Hercules off the ring apron; after the bout, Andre the Giant was introduced but only partially came down the aisle before turning around and going backstage due to being heavily booed Brutus Beefcake defeated Johnny V via submission with the sleeper at 6:36 in a hair vs. hair match Tom Prichard pinned Mark Lewin at 2:58 with an enzuiguri WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang (w/ Slick) at 10:13 with the legdrop following a bodyslam; after the bout, the champion threw Slick to the floor WWF Women’s Champion Sherri Martel pinned the Fabulous Moolah at 6:47 after shoving the challenger out of the corner (The Women of the WWF) The Junkyard Dog & Tony Atlas (w/ Ernie Ladd) defeated Sika & Kamala (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) when JYD pinned Sika at 5:41 after Fuji tripped JYD as he attempted a powerslam into the ring but the momentum caused JYD to roll through and land on top for the win Terry Funk pinned Chavo Guerrero with an inside cradle at 7:00 Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Jim Duggan at 8:30 with an elbow from the middle turnbuckle; it was because of the quality of this bout that Duggan was able to reclaim his job in the WWF following his release earlier in the year due to drug charges Mil Mascaras & Tito Santana (w/ Jose Lothario) defeated Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) via disqualification at 5:56 when Fuji tripped Santana from the outside; after the bout, Santana & Mascaras cleared Demolition & Fuji from the ringWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – August 29, 1987 (12,000; sell out) SD Jones defeated Barry Horowitz Sika defeated Jerry Allen Demolition defeated Chavo Guerrero & Sam Houston WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated the Fabulous Moolah Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy Graham Tito Santana pinned Hercules The Junkyard Dog defeated Kamala via disqualification Brutus Beefcake fought Ted Dibiase to a 20-minute time limit draw WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Bruno Sammartino defeated King Kong Bundy & the One Man Gang when Hogan pinned Bundy (Sammartino’s last match)WWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – August 29, 1987 (4,000) Rick Rude defeated Scott Casey Outback Jack defeated Tiger Chung Lee Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Butch Reed pinned Billy Jack Haynes Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Killer Khan defeated George Steele via disqualification Superstar Billy Graham (w/ Ken Patera) pinned King Harley Race in a whipping match after Patera interfered; after the bout, Patera whipped Bobby HeenanWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – August 29, 1987 The Dingo Warrior defeated Frenchy Martin Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Randy Savage fought Paul Orndorff to a time-limit draw Ron Bass defeated Lanny Poffo Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff via disqualification Tito Santana, B. Brian Blair, & Jim Brunzell defeated Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out; Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage for the duration of the boutWWF @ Seattle, WA – Coliseum – August 30, 1987 (2,700) Scott Casey defeated Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Rick Rude defeated Outback Jack Killer Khan defeated George Steele via disqualification Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Billy Jack Haynes fought Butch Reed to a draw Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) pinned King Harley Race in a country whipping match after catching him with a bearhug; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Ken Patera at ringside for the duration of the boutWWF @ Wheeling, WV – Civic Center – August 30, 1987 Lanny Poffo defeated Shadow #1 The Dingo Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Demolition defeated Chavo Guerrero & Sam Houston Koko B. Ware fought Ron Bass to a draw Randy Savage defeated Hercules WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out; Jimmy Hart was suspended in a cage above the ring during the boutWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – August 30, 1987 (16,000) Jerry Allen pinned Frenchy Martin SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Kamala & Sika via disqualification after Kamala hit a top rope splash onto Powers WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned the Fabulous Moolah Paul Orndorff defeated Nikolai Volkoff Brutus Beefcake defeated Danny Davis (w/ Slick – sub. for Bobby Heenan) via disqualification when Slick interfered Ted Dibiase pinned the Junkyard Dog after using a foreign object WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang with the legdropWWF @ Portland, OR – Memorial Coliseum – August 31, 1987 (4,400) Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Rick Rude defeated Scott Casey (sub. for Outback Jack) Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Killer Khan defeated George Steele Billy Jack Haynes fought Butch Reed to a draw King Harley Race defeated Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) in a country whipping match; Bobby Heenan and Ken Patera were handcuffed together at ringside for the duration of the boutWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – August 31, 1987 Chavo Guerrero defeated Barry Horowitz Frenchy Martin defeated Jerry Allen Paul Orndorff defeated Nikolai Volkoff WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated the Fabulous Moolah Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Ted Dibiase defeated Koko B. Ware WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification King Kong Bundy defeated Jake Roberts Brutus Beefcake defeated Pat Patterson; Mr. T was the guest referee for the matchWWF @ Welland, Ontario – Arena – September 1, 1987 (3,600; sell out)Chavo Guerrero pinned Barry Horowitz Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF Women’s Champion Sensaional Sherri pinned the Fabulous Moolah Brutus Beefcake (sub. for Randy Savage) pinned Nikolai Volkoff Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification after Honky used Hart’s megaphone as a weaponWWF @ Vancouver, British Columbia – PNE Coliseum – September 1, 1987 Scott Casey defeated Tiger Chung Lee Butch Reed defeated Outback Jack George Steele defeated George Skaaland (sub. for Killer Khan) Jacques Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo Greg Valentine defeated Raymond Rougeau Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Rick Rude & King Harley Race defeated Superstar Billy Graham & Billy Jack Haynes Randy Savage (sub. for WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan) pinned the One Man GangWWF @ Oshawa, Ontario – Civic Auditorium – September 2, 1987 (3,000) Chavo Guerrero defeated Barry Horowitz Vladimir Krupoff defeated Johnny K-9 WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated the Fabulous Moolah Ted Dibiase defeated Koko B. Ware Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Frenchy Martin defeated Jerry Allen Randy Savage defeated Nikolai Volkoff Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualificationWWF @ Victoria, British Columbia – Memorial Arena – September 2, 1987 18-man battle royal with participants including: Superstar Billy Graham, Butch Reed, George Steele, King Harley Race, & Killer KhanWWF / World Grand Prix @ Halifax, Nova Scotia – Forum – September 3, 1987 The Great Mulumba vs. Butcher Vachon Rock Roll Rebel Express vs. Nature Boy Sweetan & the Masked Thunderfoot Sky Low Low vs. Farmer Brooks The Cuban Assassin vs. Rick Valentine Ron Starr vs. Leo Burke (International Heavyweight Title) Bob Brown vs. the Beast Also included Kamala, George Steele, and Rick MartelWWF @ Butte, MT – Civic Center – September 3, 1987 Rick Rude vs. Scott Casey Outback Jack vs. Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo George Steele vs. Killer Khan Billy Jack Haynes vs. Butch Reed Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) vs. Hercules (Whipping Match) (Bobby Heenan is handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the bout)WWF @ Troy, NY – RPI Fieldhouse – September 3, 1987 Jerry Allen defeated Frenchy Martin Chavo Guerrero defeated Barry Horowitz Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Ted Dibiase pinned Koko B. Ware The One Man Gang fought King Kong Bundy to a double disqualification Jake Roberts pinned Nikolai Volkoff WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Billings, MT – Yellowstone Metra – September 4, 1987 Rick Rude vs. Scott Casey Outback Jack vs. Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo George Steele vs. Killer Khan Billy Jack Haynes vs. Butch Reed Superstar Billy Graham (sub. for Ken Patera) vs. Hercules (Whipping Match) (Bobby Heenan is handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the bout)King of the Ring 87 – Providence, RI – Civic Center – September 4, 1987 (12,000; sell out)Opening Round: Haku pinned Brutus Beefcake with a roll up after Beefcake became distracted by Tama at ringside Rick Martel pinned Danny Spivey (sub. for Koko B. Ware) with a small package King Kong Bundy defeated the One Man Gang via count-out SD Jones (sub. for B. Brian Blair) pinned Sika with a small package Danny Davis defeated Tito Santana via count-out after Santana chased Jimmy Hart around the ring The Junkyard Dog pinned Tama with a cradle Jim Brunzell pinned Ron Bass with a dropkick Randy Savage pinned Nikolai Volkoff with the flying elbowsmashQuarter Finals: Haku fought Rick Martel to a 15-minute time-limit draw King Kong Bundy pinned SD Jones with an elbow drop Danny Davis defeated the Junkyard Dog via count-out Randy Savage pinned Jim Brunzell with the flying elbowsmashSemi Finals: Randy Savage pinned Danny Davis with the flying elbowsmashNon-tournament match: Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification after the champion used Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as a weaponFinals: Randy Savage pinned King Kong Bundy with the flying elbowsmash after Bundy missed a splashWWF @ Canton, OH – Civic Center – September 5, 1987 Sika pinned Jerry Allen Killer Khan pinned SD Jones Haku pinned Lanny Poffo Tito Santana pinned Ron Bass Tama defeated Rick Martel King Kong Bundy pinned the Junkyard Dog Brutus Beefcake defeated the One Man Gang via disqualification Paul Orndorff pinned HerculesWWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – September 5, 1987 (3,644)Steve Lombardi vs. Cpl. Kirchner did not take place as advertised Scott Casey pinned Tiger Chung Lee Rick Rude defeated Outback Jack Danny Davis defeated George Steele (sub. for Koko B. Ware) via count-out Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed via submission with a bearhug at 3:00 Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jim Brunzell & Danny Spivey (sub. for B. Brian Blair) when Bravo pinned Brunzell after Spivey turned on his partner; after the bout, Spivey further attacked Brunzell Randy Savage defeated Kimchee & Mr. Fuji (both sub. for Kamala) in a handicap match at 4:00WrestleFest III @ Cincinnati, OH – Riverfront Coliseum – September 6, 1987 (matinee) (4,000) Sika defeated Jerry Allen (sub. for Lanny Poffo) Ron Bass defeated SD Jones The One Man Gang defeated the Junkyard Dog WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer Khan Brutus Beefcake defeated Hercules Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy in an old fashioned whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Bruno Sammartino for the match Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the IslandersWWF @ Des Moines, IA – Veterans Memorial Auditorium – September 6, 1987Cpl. Kirchner vs. Steve Lombardi did not take place as advertised Scott Casey pinned Tiger Chung Lee Rick Rude pinned Outback Jack Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed via disqualification B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo when Brunzell pinned Bravo Danny Spivey (sub. for Koko B. Ware) fought Danny Davis to a double count-out Randy Savage defeated Rick Rude (sub. for Kamala)WWF @ Lima, OH – Allen County Fairgrounds – September 7, 1987 Brady Boone vs. Iron Mike Sharpe SD Jones vs. Ron Bass Sivi Afi & David Sammartino vs. the Shadows Lanny Poffo vs. Sika The Junkyard Dog vs. the One Man Gang Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders Also included an 18-man battle royalWWF @ Cedar Rapids, IA – Five Seasons Center – September 7, 1987 Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Danny Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Steve Lombardi Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Valentine pinned Powers Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Kimchee (sub. for Kamala) Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair in a steel cage matchWWF @ Davenport, IA – Palmer Auditorium – September 8, 1987 (3,000) Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Dan Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Steve Lomardi Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Valentine pinned Powers Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell in a steel cage matchWWF @ Poughkeepsie, NY – Mid-Hudson Civic Center – September 8, 1987 Ron Bass vs. ? Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders The Junkyard Dog vs. the One Man Gang Also included 3 other matchesWWF @ Hammond, IN – Civic Center – September 9, 1987 Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Danny Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Steve Lombardi Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Valentine pinned Powers Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Sika (sub. for Kamala) Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell in a steel cage matchWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – September 9, 1987 (950) Brady Boone pinned Frenchy Martin Iron Mike Sharpe pinned David Sammartino Sivi Afi & SD Jones defeated the Shadows The Junkyard Dog defeated Hercules via disqualification Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo at 3:00 Brutus Beefcake fought the One Man Gang to a double disqualification in a hair vs. hair match; had Beefcake won, he would have been able to cut Slick’s hair; if OMG won, he would have cut Beefcake’s hair Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the IslandersWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – September 10, 1987 David Sammartino vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Lanny Poffo & Brady Boone vs. the Shadows SD Jones vs. Sika Sivi Afi vs. Ron Bass Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules The Junkyard Dog vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Decatur, IL – Civic Center – September 10, 1987 Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Danny Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Steve Lombardi Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine when Powers pinned Valentine Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell in a steel cage matchWWF @ Topeka, KS – Kansas Expocentre – September 11, 1987 Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs Danny Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Steve Lombardi WWF Women’s Champion Sherri Martel pinned Velvet McIntyre Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Sika & Kimchee (sub. for Kamala) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated George Steele (sub. for Jake Roberts) in a steel cage matchWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – September 11, 1987 (7,000) SD Jones pinned Frenchy Martin Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows (Randy Colley & Jose Luis Rivera) Ron Bass defeated Sivi Afi Hercules defeated Scott Casey via submission with the backbreaker Rick Rude defeated Davey Boy Smith Ted Dibiase pinned Brutus Beefcake Paul Orndorff (sub. for Ken Patera) defeated King Kong Bundy via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart fought Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo to a double count-outWWF @ Palmetto, FL – Manatee Civic Center – September 11, 1987 (1,750) Outback Jack defeated Joe Mirto David Sammartino defeated Tiger Chung Lee Barry Horowitz defeated Brady Boone Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike Sharpe The Junkyard Dog defeated the One Man Gang Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch ReedWWF @ Detroit, MI – Joe Louis Arena – September 12, 1987 (3,000) Sam Houston pinned Jose Estrada The Dingo Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs; Warrior used Scandal’s “The Warrior” as his entrance music for the bout Dan Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) pinned Frenchy Martin Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned Danny Davis Demolition defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers when Ax pinned Powers WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre Koko B. Ware pinned Ron Bass Paul Orndorff fought Rick Rude to a double count-out WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification when Savage hit the referee with Jimmy Hart’s megaphoneWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – September 12, 1987 (14,314)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon, Lord Alfred Hayes, & Pete Doherty on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 9/24/87: Scott Casey & SD Jones defeated the Shadows at 11:39 when Jones scored the pin with a roll up after one Shadow accidentally hit the otherPrime Time Wrestling – 9/24/87: Pete Doherty pinned Lanny Poffo at 10:07 with a backbreaker after Doherty lifted his knees to block a moonsault; prior to the bout, Doherty attacked Poffo from behind as he was reading a poemPrime Time Wrestling – 9/24/87: Steve Lombardi pinned Sivi Afi at 8:32 when the momentum of a crossbody by Afi put Lombardi on top; during the bout, Pete Doherty joined the commentary team at ringside, with Lord Alfred Hayes handing over his headset and leaving ringside; during the bout, Doherty noted that his match from earlier in the evening was his last and he had retired after finally picking up a win Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Brutus Beefcake at 14:04 with a roll up and using the tights for leverage after Virgil tripped Beefcake from the floor; prior to the bout, Dibiase tried to pay off Beefcake with $500, with Beefcake attacking Dibiase instead of taking the money; Beefcake then gave out the money to the crowd; after the bout Beefcake attacked Dibiase after Dibiase had accidentally knocked Virgil off the apron and then got the scissors out but Dibiase escaped before Beefcake could cut his hair (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake)Wrestling Spotlight – 9/26/87: Hercules defeated Davey Boy Smith via submission with the full nelson at 10:35 after Smith missed a diving headbutt off the top WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Mr. Fuji (sub. for Kamala) & Sika at 7:04 when after Fuji attempted a powerslam on Neidhart, Bret dropkicked Neidhart in the back so that he landed on Fuji for the pin; after the bout Sika attacked the champions until they were able to get out of the ring George Steele defeated King Harley Race via disqualification at 7:02 when Race hit Steele with a chair that Steele had thrown in the ring moments earlier; after the bout, Steele chased Race backstage, scared ring announcer Mel Phillips from the ring, and then sat in the ring wearing Race’s crown (Most Embarrassing Moments) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 9:39 with the legdrop after blocking Khan’s green mist and rubbing the mist into the challenger’s eyes; early in the bout, Khan accidentally spat the green mist into the referee’s eyes when Hogan moved out of the way, and so a second referee continued the match (Hulk Hogan: The Unreleased Archives)WWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – September 12, 1987 (4,812) Tiger Chung Lee defeated David Sammartino Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. The One Man Gang defeated the Junkyard Dog Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike Sharpe The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana Brady Boone defeated Barry Horowitz King Kong Bundy defeated Outback Jack Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy GrahamWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – September 13, 1987 WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. the Fabulous Moolah WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated the Dingo Warrior & Danny Spivey (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) after Spivey walked out of the matchWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – September 13, 1987 (3,500) Cowboy Lang, Karate Kid, & Pepe Gonzales defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Killer Cruz when Kid pinned Tokyo Sivi Afi pinned Frenchy Martin Killer Khan pinned SD Jones Demolition defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Ax pinned Roma after the Decapitation George Steele defeated King Harley Race via disqualification Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned Danny Davis Randy Savage pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala)WWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – September 13, 1987 David Sammartino defeated Joe Mirto Tiger Chung Lee pinned Brady Boone King Kong Bundy pinned Outback Jack Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Barry Horowitz Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana Superstar Billy Graham & the Junkyard Dog defeated the One Man Gang & Butch ReedWWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – September 14, 1987 (2,800) Jerry Allen pinned George Skaaland Cowboy Lang, Karate Kid, & Pepe Gonzales defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Killer Cruz Killer Khan pinned Sivi Afi Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed via disqualification when Slick interfered Brutus Beefcake fought King Harley Race to a 20-minute time-limit draw Ted Dibiase pinned the Junkyard Dog after Virgil tripped JYD from the floor WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart fought Demolition to a double disqualificationWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – September 14, 1987 WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Jake Roberts (Jimmy Hart suspended above the ring in a cage for the duration of the bout) Also included George Steele, Don Muraco, Hercules, Rick Martel & Tito SantanaWWF @ Kenosha, WI – Bradford High School – September 14, 1987 Outback Jack defeated Barry Horowitz Brady Boone defeated Steve Lombardi (sub. for Iron Mike Sharpe) The One Man Gang defeated Lanny Poffo (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) WWF Women’s Champion Sherri Martel defeated Velvet McIntyre Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out Randy Savage defeated Sika (sub. for Kamala)WWF @ Peoria, IL – Civic Center – September 15, 1987 (9,000)WWF Superstars taping: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau (sub. for Kamala & Sika) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via count-out Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr.; the finish was botched, thus the match had to be redone later in the evening WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Randy Savage (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) (w/ Miss Elizabeth) via disqualification when Savage hit the referee WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man GangWrestling Spotlight – 9/26/87: Sika pinned SD Jones at 5:40 with a Samoan Drop; Jimmy Hart did guest commentary for the bout with Bruce Prichard and Mike McGuirkAll American Wrestling – 10/4/87: George Steele defeated Brian Costello via submission with the flying hammerlock at 1:33; Sir Oliver Humperdink did guest commentary for the bout with Bruce Prichard and Mike McGuirkPrime Time Wrestling – 10/8/87: Ron Bass pinned Lanny Poffo at 5:13 with the Pedigree; Sir Oliver Humperdink did guest commentary for the bout alongside Bruce Prichard & Mike McGuirk9/26/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart in which Randy Savage interrupted as Honky listed the 10 reasons why he was the greatest IC champion of all time; Savage then left the interview platform and went to the ring to challenge Honky but the champion declined the offer, saying he wasn’t dressed to wrestle; featured an ‘Update’ segment where Craig DeGeorge asked fans what they thought was the best song on the Piledriver album: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Barry Horowitz at 2:38 with the slingshot splash Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows at 4:08 when Powers scored the pin with a powerslam WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Danny Davis) defeated Sonny Rogers & SD Jones at 3:01 when Bret pinned Rogers following the Hart Attack; during the bout, Tito Santana was shown providing guest Spanish commentary Jim Duggan pinned Terry Gibbs at 2:24 with the running clothesline (Duggan’s first TV appearance since June) The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jim Evans & Brady Boone at 3:09 when Tama pinned Evans following simultaneous diving headbutts; after the bout, the Islanders confronted Tito Santana at the Spanish commentary position and provoked him to the point where he attacked Tama; Santana was then beaten down and double teamed; Pedro Morales attempted to make the save but was beaten down as well until referees and officials could step in and break it up Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Rick Renslow at 1:58 with the flying elbowsmash; during the bout, Craig DeGeorge gave an update on the condition of Tito Santana, saying he would be fine after sustaining the attack10/3/87 – included Craig DeGeorge hosting a debate between Jimmy Hart and Miss Elizabeth discussing the Randy Savage / Honkytonk Man match which would air that night as part of Saturday Night’s Main Event; featured an ‘Update’ segment focusing on Ken Patera’s recent arm injury; included closing comments from various WWF superstars regarding their picks as to who would win the Savage / Honky match: Superstar Billy Graham, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Joe Mirto, Tom Stone, & Rick Gantner at 2:03 when Gantner submitted to Graham’s bearhug Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated Scott Casey via submission with the spinning toe hold at 3:10 Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Dave Wagner at 2:54 with the piledriver; during the bout, Rick Rude & Bobby Heenan appeared at the interview platform, with Rude posing in an attempt to distract Orndorff Hercules, King Kong Bundy, & Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Tony Leone, ML Williams, & Chris Bassett at 1:49 when Bassett submitted to Rude’s backbreaker Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Mike Richards with a kneedrop off the top after spitting green mist into his opponent’s eyes The Junkyard Dog & Ivan Putski defeated Mike Poland & Chris Curtis at 2:40 when Putski pinned Poland following the Polish Hammer10/10/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan, during which the main event of the Survivor Series was announced; featured the Piledriver music video, sung by Koko B. Ware; included highlights from the Savage / Honky match from Saturday Night’s Main Event: Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 2:16 after reversing Orton’s suplex attept from the outside into an inside cradle Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated Tiger Chung Lee & Barry Horowitz at 3:33 when Santana pinned Horowitz with the flying forearm King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Arthur Washington at the 36-second mark with the cradle suplex Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Van Van Horne & Mario Mancini at 2:32 when Ax pinned Horne following the Decapitation Butch Reed, the One Man Gang, & Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) defeated Sivi Afi, Jake Milliman, & Lance Allen at 2:37 when OMG pinned Milliman following the front suplexWWF @ Rockford, IL – Metro Centre – September 16, 1987 (6,808)Wrestling Challenge taping: The Dingo Warrior defeated Steve Lombardi Sam Houston defeated Terry Gibbs WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan with the legdrop after avoiding the mistPrime Time Wrestling – 9/24/87: George Steele defeated King Harley Race via disqualification when Hercules interfered at 4:02; after the match, Scott Casey, Lanny Poffo, Paul Roma, and Jim Powers attempted to make the save but were beaten down by Race, Hercules, and King Kong Bundy until Bam Bam Bigelow evened the odds (George ‘The Animal’ Steele)Prime Time Wrestling – 9/24/87: Don Muraco fought Ron Bass to a double disqualification at 9:23 when the referee was knocked down as he tried to step in between the twoPrime Time Wrestling – 10/1/87: Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Jacques Rougeau at 8:27 with a roll up after Jacques became distracted by Virgil on the ring apron; after the bout, Dibiase offered to pay a kid in the audience $300 to do a certain amount of push ups only to deny him the money; moments thereafter, Jim Duggan came out, attacked Dibiase, and he and the kid left with the money; the post-match altercation was not televised9/27/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Jim Duggan: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated SD Jones & Outback Jack at 4:03 following the Decapitation on Jones Paul Orndorff (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Brian Costello at 3:19 with the piledriver The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Van Van Horne at 1:52 with the front suplex; after the bout, OMG continued to attack his opponent to the point where Horne had to be taken out on a stretcher Superstar Billy Graham & Ivan Putski defeated Rocky Stone & Joe Mirto after 17 seconds when both men gained simultaneous submission wins with a bearhug Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Sivi Afi at 4:08 with a reverse piledriver WWF Women’s Champion Sherri Martel pinned Velvet McIntyre at 3:35 in a non-title match by reversing a roll up and using the tights for leverage10/4/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ron Bass: Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated Rick Renslow & Dave Wagner at 3:39 when Roma pinned Renslow with a powerslam King Harley Race, Hercules, & King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Scott Casey, Brady Boone, & Chris Curtis at 2:31 when Bundy pinned Curtis with the Avalance Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Shadow 1 at 1:24 with a slingshot splash into the ring Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated Jerry Allen via submission at 4:25 Don Muraco pinned Barry Horowitz at 2:45 with the tombstone Jim Duggan, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification when Davis hit Jacques with Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as Jacques had Bret in a sleeper10/11/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Jimmy Hart, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart; included highlights of the Savage / Honky match from SNME: Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Terry Gibbs & Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:31 when Santana pinned Sharpe with the flying forearm Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Lanny Poffo at 2:12 with a press slam Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Shadow 2 (w/ Shadow 1) at 1:16 with a slingshot splash into the ring; after the bout, Bigelow fought off both men The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Mario Mancini & Mike Richards at 4:02 when Tama pinned Richards with a splash off the top Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Chris Zarna at 1:35 with the flying kneedrop after spraying green mist into his opponent’s eyesWWF @ Kansas City, MO – Kemper Arena – September 17, 1987 (6,000) Bob Orton Jr. pinned Jerry Allen Nikolai Volkoff pinned Scott Casey Don Muraco fought Killer Khan to a double disqualification Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders via count-out WWF Women’s Champion Sherri Martel defeated Velvet McIntyre WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated King Harley Race in a steel cage matchWWF @ Syracuse, NY – War Memorial – September 17, 1987 (2,300) The Dingo Warrior defeated Jose Estrada (sub. for Tiger Chung Lee) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz Olympia Harteur pinned Judy Martin Rick Rude defeated SD Jones Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification when Honky used his guitar as a weapon; Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage for the duration of the bout Outback Jack & Lanny Poffo defeated the Shadows Dan Spivey (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) defeated Danny Davis via count-out Randy Savage pinned HerculesWWF @ Lexington, KY – Rupp Arena – September 17, 1987 Ron Bass vs. ? Demolition vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Paul Orndorff (sub. for Ken Patera) vs. King Kong Bundy (old fashioned whipping match; Bobby Heenan handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the bout) George Steele vs. Ted DibiaseWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – September 18, 1987 Bob Orton Jr. defeated Jerry Allen Hercules defeated Don Muraco Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Velvet McIntyre Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy in an Old Fasioned Whipping Match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the boutWWF @ Youngstown, OH – Beeghly Center – September 18, 1987 The Dingo Warrior pinned Jose Estrada Olympia Harteur (w/ local DJ AC McCullough) pinned Judy Martin Rad Rheignans & Sam Houston defeated the Shadows Danny Davis pinned Dan Spivey (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) after hitting him with brass knuckles Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau George Steele fought Ron Bass to a double count-out Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification; during the bout, Jimmy Hart was suspended in a cage above the ringWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – September 18, 1987 (9,000)Televised on the PRISM Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Dick Graham on commentary, with Craig DeGeorge replacing Monsoon for the second half of the showPrime Time Wrestling – 10/15/87: Barry Horowitz pinned Lanny Poffo with a side Russian legsweep at 12:34Prime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: Frenchy Martin pinned SD Jones at 9:46 after reversing Jones’ small package into one of his own and grabbing the tights for leverage Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned King Harley Race at 8:24 with a reverse roll upPrime Time Wrestling – 10/15/87: Scott Casey pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 9:01 with a bulldog Brutus Beefcake defeated Rick Rude via disqualification at 12:45 when King Harley Race attempted to interfere as Beefcake had the sleeper applied; moments later, Beefcake applied the sleeper on Race before then chasing both men from the ring with his scissors Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned the Junkyard Dog at 8:49 with a roll up after Virgil tripped him from the outside; prior to the bout, Dibiase attempted to give JYD $500 to take the night off but JYD attacked him from behind and handed the money out to fans at ringsidePrime Time Wrestling – 10/15/87: WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 13:28 when Bret pinned Brunzell after Neidhart swept Brunzell’s legs out from under him as he attempted to suplex Hart into the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 10/15/87: Outback Jack pinned Tiger Chung Lee at 3:06 with a bulldog WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 9:15 with the legdrop after blocking the challenger’s green mist and rubbing the mist into Khan’s eyes; early in the match, Khan accidentally spat the mist into the referee’s eyes when Hogan moved out of the way and a second referee took over the officiating dutiesWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – September 19, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Barry Horowitz Outback Jack vs. Tiger Chung Lee SD Jones (sub. for Cpl. Kirchner) vs. Frenchy Martin Scott Casey vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, & George Steele vs. Danny Davis, WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. Killer KhanWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – September 19, 1987 Velvet McIntyre vs. WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch Reed Paul Orndorff (sub. for Ken Patera) vs. King Kong Bundy (Whipping Match) (Bobby Heenan is handcuffed to Bruno Sammartino for the duration of the bout) Also included Hercules, Tito Santana & Rick Martel, and Koko B. WareWWF @ Toledo, OH – Sports Arena – September 19, 1987 (4,000)The scheduled bout between Brutus Beefcake and Rick Rude did not take place due to Beefcake being injured and appearing on crutches Olympia Hunter defeated Judy Martin Danny Spivey (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) defeated Steve Lombardi The Dingo Warrior defeated Jose Estrada Sam Houston & Brad Rheingans defeated the Shadows Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Ted Dibiase defeated the Junkyard Dog Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification; Jimmy Hart was suspended in a cage above the ring during the boutWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – September 20, 1987Featured Gorilla Monsoon on commentary with Bobby Heenan and Billy Red Lyons working with him on various matches; the scheduled Sika vs. Cpl. Kichner match was canceled:Prime Time Wrestling – 10/1/87: Bob Orton Jr. pinned Scott Casey with the superplex at 13:02Prime Time Wrestling – 2/1/88: Koko B. Ware fought King Harley Race to a 25-minute time-limit draw at 22:29Prime Time Wrestling – 10/8/87: SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi at 8:16 with a roll upInternational Wrestling Challenge: Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) at 7:31 after Rude sent Orndorff into the referee, who fell to the outside of the ring, and was then pushed back in by Humperdink; moments earlier, Rude hit Orndorff in the face with a chair given to him by Heenan, which Humperdink did not see Danny Davis defeated Brutus Beefcake Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for Kamala) (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) via disqualification when Kimchee interfered with Fuji’s cane; after the bout, Muraco chased Orton and Kimchee from ringside with the canePrime Time Wrestling – 10/1/87: Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 11:21 when Valentine pinned Roma following an elbow to the head by Bravo Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated the Islanders via count-out when Martel slid back inside the ring as both teams were brawling on the floor; Bobby Heenan came ringside with the Islanders but was sent backstage before the match by the refereeWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – September 20, 1987 Sam Houston defeated Tiger Chung Lee Jose Estrada defeated Jerry Allen The Dino Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Velvet McIntyre Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Randy Savage defeated Hercules The One Man Gang defeated George Steele via disqualification WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Jake Roberts); Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage for the duration of the matchWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – September 20, 1987 Superstar Billy Graham vs. King Kong Bundy The Junkyard Dog vs. Ted Dibiase WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Spokane, WA – Riverpark Coliseum – September 21, 1987 Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, & Little Gomez vs. Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Little Coco Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis The Junkyard Dog vs. Nikolai Volkoff B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Demolition Brutus Beefcake vs. Rick Rude Also included a 16-man battle royal with participants including: Billy Jack Haynes, Bam Bam Bigelow, Koko B. Ware, Danny Davis, the Junkyard Dog, Nikolai Volkoff, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, Demolition, Rick Rude & Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – September 21, 1987 (19,745; sell out)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary, with Bobby Heenan doing guest commentary for the first two matches; included Monsoon conducting a backstage interview with Hillbilly Jim his match later in the card against King Harley Race; included Craig DeGeorge conducting a backstage interview with Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan, with Heenan saying he had a plan to take out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan; included DeGeorge interviewing the One Man Gang & Slick following Gang’s match with Hogan, with Slick demanding a rematch; included Monsoon interviewing Randy Savage about his upcoming match with the Honkytonk Man:Prime Time Wrestling – 10/8/87: Scott Casey pinned Steve Lombardi with a bulldog at 11:32 Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 11:42 by reversing a piledriver into a backdrop The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana at 13:58 when Haku pinned Martel with a diving headbutt after switching places with TamaPrime Time Wrestling – 10/8/87: Tiger Chung Lee pinned Brad Rheingans with a shoulderbreaker at 5:01 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan fought the One Man Gang (w/ Slick) to a double count-out at 9:09 when both men began brawling on the floor after Slick had distracted Hogan from making the pinfall following a powerslam and the legdrop on Gang; after the bout, Hogan cleared Gang from the ring with a backdrop (Gang’s MSG debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 10/8/87: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau fought Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) to a time-limit draw at 17:07; the bell rang as Valentine had the figure-4 applied on Jacques; after the bout, the Rougeaus cleared the ring of their opponentsPrime Time Wrestling – 10/1/87: George Steele defeated Sika (sub. for Kamala) (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) via disqualification at the 3-minute mark after Sika used a steel chair as a weapon; after the match, Steele chased his opponent backstage with the chair before chasing Kimchee back into the ring and clearing him from the ring (George ‘the Animal’ Steele)Prime Time Wrestling – 10/1/87: King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Hillbilly Jim with a diving headbutt off the top at 8:37; after the bout, Heenan introduced Andre the Giant to the crowd Randy Savage (sub. for Jake Roberts) (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 11:56 in a non-title match with the flying elbowsmashWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – September 22, 1987 SD Jones vs. Steve Lombardi Hillbilly Jim vs. the One Man Gang Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo George Steele vs. Sika (sub. for Kamala) Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts) vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Tacoma, WA – Tacoma Dome – September 22, 1987 (1,700) Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, & Little Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Little Coco Omar Atlas pinned Barry Horowitz Brady Boone pinned Jose Estrada Rick Rude defeated Brutus Beefcake via forfeit; Beefcake came out on crutches and was unable to compete Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Bam Bam Bigelow won a 17-man battle royal; Rick Rude was the first man eliminated; other participants included: Omar Atlas, Barry Horowitz, Brady Boone, Jose Estrada, Iron Mike Sharpe, Billy Jack Haynes, Rip Oliver, Koko B. Ware, Danny Davis, the Junkyard Dog, Nikolai Volkoff, Demolition, B. Brian Blair, & Jim Brunzell Billy Jack Haynes pinned Rip Oliver Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis The Junkyard Dog pinned Nikolai Volkoff Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim BrunzellWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – September 23, 1987 (9,000) Lanny Poffo pinned Steve Lombardi Scott Casey pinned Tiger Chung Lee Jacques & Raymond Rougeau fought Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo to a draw Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Ted Dibiase pinned Hillbilly Jim at around the 4-minute mark with a powerslam and hooking the tights for leverageSaturday Night’s Main Event #12 – 10/3/87 on NBC (9.7); featured opening comments from WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart, Randy Savage & Miss Elizabeth, King Kong Bundy & Bobby Heenan, Sika & Mr. Fuji, and WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan regarding the upcoming matches; featured Animotion’s “Obsession” as the opening theme song; featured Vince McMahon & Heenan on commentary, with Heenan implying he had a big surprise for later in the show; included Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Honky & Hart regarding Honky’s upcoming match with Savage and opting to go out to the ring first instead of the challenger; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Savage & Elizabeth regarding the upcoming match with Honky; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Fuji & Sika regarding Sika’s upcoming match with Hogan, with Fuji claiming Hogan was tired after helping Savage earlier in the show and would be easy prey; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his altercation with Savage and upcoming title defense; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Paul Orndorff & Sir Oliver Humperdink regarding Orndorff’s upcoming match with Bundy; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Bundy regarding his upcoming match with Orndorff; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart regarding their upcoming title defense and attack on Randy Savage earlier in the show, with Okerlund walking off out of disgust of their actions; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan and Savage regarding their newfound association, during which they were referred to as the Mega Powers; included the world premiere of Koko B. Ware’s “Piledriver” music video, with appearances from most of the WWF talent, Vince McMahon, and Arnold Skaaland, with added clips of Koko in the ring with Frankie; featured Tammy Wynette’s “Stand By Your Man” as the closing theme song, put to clips of Savage & Elizabeth from earlier in the show: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification at around the 13-minute mark when WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart broke the cover after Savage hit the flying elbowsmash on the champion; Jimmy Hart was in Honky’s corner early in the match but was helped backstage by Honky, Hart, and WWF Tag Team Champion Jim Neidhart after Savage knocked Jimmy to the floor; after taking him backstage, the tag team champions remained in Honky’s corner; after the contest, Savage was triple teamed before Bret & Neidhart held Savage so Honky could hit him over the head with the guitar, with Elizabeth then standing in Honky’s way before he pushed her to the mat; moments later, Elizabeth returned backstage with Honky then breaking the guitar over Savage’s head; as the triple team continued, Elizabeth returned with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, with Hogan and Savage clearing the ring before facing off; moments later, Savage extended his hand to Hogan with Hogan shaking it; Hogan, Savage, and Elizabeth then celebrated in the ring (Saturday Night’s Main Event: The Greatest Hits, Best of Saturday Night’s Main Event) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) (w/ Mr. Fuji & Kimchee) at 7:59 with a bodyslam and the legdrop; after the bout, Hogan knocked Fuji and Kichee to the floor King Kong Bundy pinned Paul Orndorff (w/ Oliver Humperdink) at around the 8-minute mark when Andre the Giant, from the floor, pulled Orndorff into the corner allowing for Bundy to hit the Avalanche; Andre appeared ringside mid-way through the bout after Bobby Heenan left the broadcast booth as Orndorff was dominating the match; after Andre appeared, Heenan returned to the broadcast booth WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 4:35 when Bret pinned Roma after the champions hit the Hart Attack behind the referee’s back; Jimmy Hart was not in the champions’ corner because of the injury he sustained from Randy Savage earlier in the showWWF @ Portland, OR – Memorial Coliseum – September 23, 1987 Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, and Little Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, and Little Coco Brady Boone defeated Jose Estrada Billy Jack Haynes defeated Rip Oliver via disqualification Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell The Junkyard Dog defeated Nikolai Volkoff Danny Davis defeated Koko B. Ware Bam Bam Bigelow won a 16-man battle royal; other participants included: Rick Rude, the One Man Gang, Brady Boone, Jose Estrada, Billy Jack Haynes, Rip Oliver, Iron Mike Sharpe, Demolition, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, the Junkyard Dog, Nikolai Volkoff, Danny Davis, Koko B. WareWWF @ Winnipeg, Manitoba – Arena – September 24, 1987 (4,600) Brad Rheingans pinned Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo fought Jacques & Raymond Rougeau to a draw Ted Dibiase pinned Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Randy Savage pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) Paul Orndorff pinned King Kong Bundy in an Old Fashioned whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Baron Von Raschke (sub. for an injured Ken Patera) for the duration of the boutWWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – September 24, 1987Originally scheduled for the card was the One Man Gang vs. Chavo Guerrero and Brutus Beefcake vs. Rick Rude Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, and Little Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, and Little Coco Killer Khan defeated Hillbilly Jim Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Demolition defeated Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair The Junkyard Dog defeated Nikolai Volkoff Superstar Billy Graham defeated Rick Rude (sub. for Butch Reed) via disqualification The Junkyard Dog won a 20-man battle royal; other participants included: the One Man Gang, Bam Bam Bigelow, Iron Mike Sharpe, Killer Khan, Hillbilly Jim, Koko B. Ware, Danny Davis, Demolition, Jim Brunzell. B. Brian Blair, & Nikolai Volkoff– 9/25/87: The Princess Bride, starring Andre the Giant, opened in US theaters.WWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – September 25, 1987 Brad Rheingans pinned Tiger Chung Lee Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo fought Jacques & Raymond Rougeau to a draw Ted Dibiase pinned Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Davey Boy Smith) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Randy Savage pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) Paul Orndorff (w/ Ken Patera) pinned King Kong Bundy in an Old Fashioned whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Jim Duggan for the duration of the bout; Heenan was to have been handcuffed to Patera but that changed due to Patera’s arm injuryWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – September 25, 1987 (2,500)Originally scheduled for the card was the One Man Gang vs. Chavo Guerrero Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Koko B. Ware defeated Nikolai Volkoff Hercules defeated Brutus Beefcake Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, and Little Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, and Little Coco Rip Oliver pinned Omar Atlas Brady Boone pinned Jack Armstrong Killer Khan defeated Hillbilly Jim Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell in a Best 2 out of 3 falls match The Junkyard Dog pinned Ron Bass Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed Bam Bam Bigelow won a 20-man battle royal; other participants included: Iron Mike Sharpe, Koko B. Ware, Nikolai Volkoff, Hercules, Brutus Beefcake, Rip Oliver, Omar Atlas, Brady Boone, Jack Armstrong, Killer Khan, Hillbilly Jim, Demolition, B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, the Junkyard Dog, Ron Bass, Superstar Billy Graham, & Butch ReedWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – September 26, 1987 Brady Boone pinned Terry Gibbs Demoliton defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Koko B. Ware fought Ron Bass to a time-limit draw Killer Khan pinned Brutus Beefcake The Junkyard Dog defeated Hercules via disqualification Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, and Little Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, and Little Coco Nikolai Volkoff pinned Hillbilly Jim Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch ReedWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Auditorium – September 26, 1987 Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, & Little Gomez vs. Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Little Coco Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules Ron Bass vs. the Junkyard Dog Hillbilly Jim vs. Killer Khan Nikolai Volkoff vs. Koko B. Ware Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – September 26, 1987 Jerry Allen pinned Frenchy Martin Outback Jack pinned Iron Mike Sharpe The One Man Gang pinned George Steele in under a minute Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated the Islanders Paul Orndorff pinned King Kong Bundy in an Old Fashioned Whipping Match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Ken Patera for the duration of the bout WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts) pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title matchWWF @ Nashville, TN – Fairgrounds – September 26, 1987 (matinee) (10,000) SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi Barry Horowitz pinned David Sammartino Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Tiger Chung Lee pinned Sivi Afi Jacques & Raymond Rougeau fought Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo to a draw Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Ted Dibiase after Dibiase collided with Virgil on the ring apronWWF @ Huntsville, AL – Von Braun Civic Center – September 26, 1987 (5,061) Steve Lombardi pinned David Sammartino Barry Horowitz defeated Sivi Afi SD Jones pinned Tiger Chung Lee Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika (sub. for Kamala) Randy Savage defeated Ted Dibiase via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – September 27, 1987 (3,000) Lanny Poffo defeated the Red Demon WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Velvet McIntyre The One Man Gang defeated George Steele; after the bout, Steele was taken backstage on a stretcher The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana Jerry Allen defeated Frenchy Martin WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man pinned Ricky Steamboat (sub. for Jake Roberts) Outback Jack defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Paul Orndorff (sub. for an injured Ken Patera) pinned King Kong Bundy at 3:22 in a whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to Jim Duggan for the duration of the bout; due to pre-match stipulations, Heenan was whipped by Orndorff and PateraWWF @ Pensacola, FL – Civic Center – September 27, 1987 David Sammartino vs. Steve Lombardi Sivi Afi vs. Barry Horowitz SD Jones vs. Sika Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Bam Bam Bigelow vs. ? (sub. for Kamala) Randy Savage vs. Ted Dibiase WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – September 27, 1987 Cowboy Lang, Karate Chris Dube, & Little Gomez vs. Lord Littlebrook, Little Tokyo, & Little Coco Hillbilly Jim vs. Hercules Brutus Beefcake vs. Killer Khan Nikolai Volkoff vs. the Junkyard Dog WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Paul Roma & Jim Powers Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – September 28, 1987 Sivi Afi pinned Terry Gibbs Ron Bass pinned Scott Casey Ted Dibiase pinned Outback Jack WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed via disqualification Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race Hercules defeated Hillbilly Jim WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jim DugganWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – September 28, 1987 (11,108) Frenchy Martin pinned Brady Boone Rick Rude pinned Sam Houston Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy via disqualification in an old fashioned whipping match when Rick Rude interfered; Bobby Heenan was scheduled to be handcuffed to George Steele for the duration of the bout, and would be whipped by Orndorff 10 times if Bundy lost The Dingo Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Sika (sub. for Kamala) The One Man Gang pinned George Steele at 3:30 Dino Bravo defeated Jacques Rougeau at 11:41 Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders at 13:28 when Martel pinned HakuWWF @ Flint, MI – IMA Sports Arena – September 29, 1987 (1,200) The Dingo Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi Rick Rude defeated Brady Boone The One Man Gang pinned George Steele Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out Sam Houston pinned Frenchy Martin Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the IslandersWWF @ Oakland, CA – Coliseum – September 29, 1987 (3,400) Ron Bass pinned Scott Casey at around the 14-minute mark with the pedigree Ted Dibiase pinned Outback Jack at around the 4-minute mark with the powerslam WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre at around the 13-minute mark by reversing a flying crossbody Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race at around the 8-minute mark with a reverse cradle Jim Duggan defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via reverse decision at around the 10-minute mark; Honky originally got the pin hooking the tights and using the ropes for leverage but Randy Savage came out and told the referee how Honky won, and he reversed the decision Sivi Afi pinned Terry Gibbs with a flying bodypress at around the 11-minute mark Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed (w/ Slick) via disqualification at around the 8-minute mark when Slick interfered with his cane when Graham had the bearhug applied on Reed Hercules pinned Hillbilly Jim at around the 9-minute mark with a cradle and using the ropes for leverage WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at around the 13-minute mark when Powers was pinned following the Hart AttackWWF @ El Paso, TX – Civic Center – September 30, 1987 Included Jake RobertsWWF @ Battle Creek, MI – Kellogg Center Arena – September 30, 1987 (1,600) The Dingo Warrior pinned Frenchy Martin Sam Houston defeated Steve Lombardi Bam Bam Bigelow vs. Sika (sub. for Kamala) Rick Rude pinned Brady Boone Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders The One Man Gang pinned George Steele Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed via disqualificationWWF @ Halifax, Nova Scotia – Forum – October 1, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Frenchy Martin The Dingo Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Rick Rude vs. Brady Boone Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders George Steele vs. the One Man Gang Bam Bam Bigelow vs. Sika (sub. for Kamala) Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Salt Lake City, UT – Salt Palace – October 1, 1987 Sivi Afi pinned Terry Gibbs Ron Bass pinned Scott Casey Hercules pinned Hillbilly Jim Ted Dibiase pinned Outback Jack WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Paul Roma & Steve Gatorwolf (sub. for Jim Powers) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Velvet McIntyre (sub. for the Fabulous Moolah) Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race Jim Duggan pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title matchWWF @ Hartford, CT – Civic Center – October 2, 1987 Dan Spivey pinned SD Jones Jerry Allen pinned Shadow #2 Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham Rick Rude defeated Outback Jack via submission Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated the Islanders Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika Brady Boone pinned Jose Estrada WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer KhanWWF @ Boise, ID – Pavilion – October 2, 19871st show in Boise Greg Valentine vs. Brutus Beefcake Ted Dibiase vs. the Junkyard Dog WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Jim Duggan (sub. for Jake Roberts)WWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – October 2, 1987 (2,480) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz David Sammartino defeated Shadow #1 Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race The Dingo Warrior defeated Terry Gibbs George Steele defeated Danny Davis in a lumberjack match WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Velvet McIntyre WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Paul Roma & Sam Houston (sub. for Jim Powers) when Neidhart pinned Houston Paul Orndorff fought King Kong Bundy to a double count-outWWF @ Dallas, TX – Convention Center – October 3, 1987 (2,777) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz Boris Zhukov pinned David Sammartino WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Harley Race Rick Rude defeated Koko B. Ware George Steele defeated Danny Davis The Dingo Warrior pinned Shadow #1 Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy in an Old Fashioned Whipping match; Bobby Heenan was handcuffed to the Dingo Warrior for the duration of the bout B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualificationWWF @ Denver, CO – McNichols Arena – October 3, 1987 (1,200)Koko B. Ware, Rick Rude, Hercules, George Steele, & Ron Bass were no shows because their plane was delayed Rip Oliver pinned Sivi Afi Davey Boy Smith fought Dino Bravo to a draw Jim Duggan pinned Killer Khan Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine Ted Dibiase pinned the Junkyard Dog; prior to the bout Dibiase gave JYD $500 to take the night off but JYD gave the money to the crowd instead Demolition defeated Jim Powers & Lanny Poffo Greg Valentine pinned Scott Casey Brutus Beefcake (sub. for George Steele) pinned WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man in a non-title match; Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage for the boutWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – October 3, 1987 (8,500)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Pete Doherty on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 12/10/87: Jerry Allen defeated Pete Doherty via disqualification at 7:23 when Doherty knocked down the referee with an elbow Dan Spivey pinned SD Jones at 7:08 with a neckbreaker Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Superstar Billy Graham at 7:56 with his feet on the ropes after Graham punched Slick off the ring apronPrime Time Wrestling – 11/5/87: Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 8:15 after reversing Orton’s roll up attempt into one of his ownPrime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: Brady Boone pinned Jose Estrada at 9:44 by reversing a backdrop attempt into a roll upPrime Time Wrestling – 10/29/87: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Sika at 6:48 with the slingshot splash after Sika ran into the corner Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) pinned Outback Jack at 4:28 with a rolling gutwrench into a bridge Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Hercules at 7:25 with a reverse roll up The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana at 10:45 when Haku, the illegal man, pinned Santana with a diving headbutt as Santana had the figure-4 applied on TamaWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – October 4, 1987 (1,976) Nikolai Volkoff pinned Hillbilly Jim Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. The One Man Gang pinned the Junkyard Dog at around the 4-minute mark Davey Boy Smith & Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for the Dynamite Kid) defeated Demolition via disqualification Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude via count-out; included a prematch posedown Billy Jack Haynes (sub. for Ricky Steamboat who was supposed to be the sub. for Jake Roberts) defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre by using the tights for leverage after a crossbody from the challenger resulted in Sherri rolling on top for the win The One Man Gang won a 12-man Royal Rumble when both he and the Junkyard Dog went over the top at the same time after 12 minutes and Gang was declared the winner; pre-match stipulations stated the winner would earn a world title shot for the next show in St. Louis on 11/7 but OMG’s title shot was announced during intermission, angering fansWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – October 4, 1987 The Dingo Warrior vs. Terry Gibbs Brady Boone vs. Barry Horowitz Danny Spivey vs. Lanny Poffo David Sammartino vs. Shadow #1 George Steele vs. Killer Khan Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders Ted Dibiase vs. Brutus Beefcake Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Harley Race (old fashioned whipping match with Bobby Heenan handcuffed to George Steele for the duration of the bout)WWF @ Bismarck, ND – Civic Center – October 4, 1987Debut in the cityScott Casey vs. Outlaw Ron Bass did not take place as advertised Sivi Afi pinned Rip Oliver Boris Zhukov pinned the Alaskan (Rick Renslow) Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated Paul Roma & Scott Casey (sub for Jim Powers) when Valentine pinned Casey Jim Duggan pinned Hercules WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – October 5, 1987 Paul Orndorff & Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Harley Race & King Kong Bundy Also included: Geroge Steele, Ted Dibiase, Brutus Beefcake, Rick Martel & Tito SantanaWWF @ Platteville, WI – Platteville Fieldhouse – October 5, 1987 Rip Oliver pinned Sivi Afi WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated SD Jones (sub. for Jim Powers) & Paul Roma when Valentine pinned Jones Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis Bob Orton Jr. pinned Sam Houston (sub. for Don Muraco) WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & B. Brian BlairWWF @ Lincoln, NE – Pershing Auditorium – October 5, 1987 (2,231)The Junkyard Dog vs. the One Man Gang did not take place as scheduled David Sammartino defeated Shadow #1 The Dingo Warrior defeated Terry Gibbs Boris Zhukov pinned Scott Casey Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualification Nikolai Volkoff defeated Hillbilly Jim Rick Rude pinned Billy Jack Haynes Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy GrahamWWF @ Milwaukee, WI – Mecca – October 6, 1987 (11,929; sell out)WWF Superstars taping: Sam Houston pinned Danny Davis; the match was later redone Sam Houston pinned Danny Davis; the match was later redone a third time before airing B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Rip Oliver & Barry HorowitzInternational Wrestling Challenge: Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs with a bulldog at 6:58International Wrestling Challenge: Danny Spivey pinned Lanny Poffo with a neckbreaker at 3:16Prime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Iron Mike Sharpe & Dave Wagner at 4:57 when Powers pinned Wagner with a powerslamPrime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: Tito Santana (w/ Rick Martel) fought Haku (w/ Bobby Heenan & Tama) to a double disqualification at 6:42 when Tama and Martel both interfered on behalf of their partners; after the bout, Santana & Martel cleared the ring of the opposition (Best of the WWF Vol. 15)Prime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: Paul Orndorff (w/ Oliver Humperdink) defeated Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) via disqualification at 6:23 when Rick Rude interfered and prevented the pinfall after Orndorff hit the piledriver; after the bout, Rude attacked Orndorff, threw him to the floor, and posed until Orndorff scared him from the ring with Humperdink’s cane; moments later, Orndorff grabbed the mic and challenged Rude to come back out to the ring (Best of the WWF Vol. 14)Wrestling Spotlight – 10/24/87: Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) defeated Lance Allen & Sonny Rogers at 4:49 when Zhukov pinned Allen with a diving headbuttAll American Wrestling – 10/25/87 – included an interview with Ted Dibiase & Virgil, where Dibiase offered $500 to a young boy named Shaun to bounce a basketball 15 times in a row; just as Shaun bounced it 14 times, Dibiase kicked the ball away and paid him nothing10/17/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, where he discussed the Survivor Series main event; featured the announcement that George Steele was scheduled to wrestle during the show but was too upset about what happened to Miss Elizabeth during Saturday Night’s Main Event; included comments from WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri about her match at the Survivor Series; featured the ‘Girls in Cars’ music video from Piledriver; included a ‘Special Report’ segment showing highlights from the Savage / Honkytonk Man match from Saturday Night’s Main Event: Brutus Beefcake defeated Van Van Horne via submission with the sleeper at 3:12 Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) defeated SD Jones & Rick Gantner at 3:01 when Gantner submitted to Valentine’s figure-4 Paul Orndorff (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Chris Curtis at 2:02 with the piledriver; during the bout, Rick Rude came out and posed on the stage The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jim Evans & Tony Parks at 2:10 when Tama pinned Parks with a splash off the top Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Rick Renslow with the slingshot splash at the 55-second mark10/24/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Bobby Heenan, Jimmy Hart, Slick, Mr. Fuji, & Johnny V regarding the 10-man tag team match at the Survivor Series; featured an ‘Update’ segment focusing on the Paul Orndorff / King Kong Bundy match from Saturday Night’s Main Event; included the ‘Rock & Roll Hootchie Koo’ music video from the Piledriver album, sung by Gene Okerlund & Rick Derringer; featured comments from Jimmy Hart, with the Glamour Girls, in which he announced he was the new manager of the WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions; included closing comments from Danny Davis regarding his match with Sam Houston the following week, billed as the singles debut for both men on TV: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated George Steele via disqualification at 1:54 in a non-title match when Steele hit the champion with Hart’s megaphone moments after the champion used it behind the referee’s back (George ‘the Animal’ Steele) Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan & Andre the Giant) defeated Mike Richards via submission with the backbreaker at 1:41; prior to the bout, Heenan introduced Andre the Giant, who stayed in Rude’s corner for the duration of the match; during the bout, Paul Orndorff & Sir Oliver Humperdink appeared at the interview platform, with Orndorff posing in an attempt to distract Rude Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Steve Lombardi & Jose Estrada at 3:38 when Dynamite pinned Estrada with a diving headbutt after being thrown by Smith King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Frankie DeFalco at 1:24 with the cradle suplex; after the bout, Race forced his opponent to bow before him, then had a confrontation with Jim Duggan in the aisle as neither man was willing to let the other pass; Duggan hit Race with his 2×4 after Race pushed him (post-match included on ‘Hacksaw’ Jim Duggan) Jim Duggan pinned Tiger Chung Lee with the running clothesline at 1:02; during the bout, Harley Race was held back from the ring by officials but after the bout came into the ring to confront Duggan with a steel chair; Duggan again hit Race with the 2×4 before stealing the King’s robe and crown (‘Hacksaw’ Jim Duggan)10/31/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, with Jimmy Hart, regarding his participation at the Survior Series; featured a ‘Special Report’ segment showing the Duggan / Race incident from last week; included a promo by Killer Khan & Mr. Fuji where Khan spat green mist into the camera lens; featured a replay of the Piledriver music video due to ‘popular demand’; included closing comments from the Hart Foundation & Jimmy Hart as well as Strike Force regarding their match the following week: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Brady Boone & Scott Casey at 3:34 when Ax pinned Boone following the Decapitation; after the contest, Billy Jack Haynes attempted to make the save after Boone sustained two more Decapitations but ended up recieving one himself; Ken Patera then came out but was attacked with Mr. Fuji’s cane, sustaining further injury to his arm; moments later, Boone was taken backstage on a stretcher Sam Houston pinned Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 2:14 with a powerslam, even though Davis’ foot was on the bottom rope during the cover Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated Sivi Afi via submission with a Scorpion Deathlock at 3:19 Bam Bam Bigelow won a 10-man battle royal by last eliminating Hercules and Bob Orton Jr. at 3:47; other participants included: Outback Jack (sub. for Hillbilly Jim), the One Man Gang, Nikolai Volkoff, Boris Zhukov, the Junkyard Dog, the Ultimate Warrior, and Don Muraco; order of elimination: OMG by Jack & JYD (0:15), Jack by Hercules (0:30), Volkoff by JYD (1:15), JYD by Orton (1:18), Muraco by Hercules & Orton (1:53), Zhukov by the Warrior (1:54), Warrior by Orton (1:59) Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Shadow #2 at 1:41 with the flying elbowsmashDark match after the taping: WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer KhanWWF @ Green Bay, WI – Veterans Memorial Arena – October 7, 1987Wrestling Challenge taping: Danny Spivey pinned Sivi AfiAll American Wrestling – 10/25/87: Ken Patera, Billy Jack Haynes, & Don Muraco defeated the Islanders & Bob Orton Jr. when Muraco pinned Orton at 13:37 after an attempted superplex failed when Patera hit Orton with his cast and Muraco fell on top for the winPrime Time Wrestling – 11/12/87: Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned the Junkyard Dog at 10:01 by using the tights for leverage when Dibiase attempted to slam JYD into the ring, with JYD falling on top but the momentum rolling Dibiase over for the win (Best of the WWF Vol. 14)10/18/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan, discussing the Survivor Series main event: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Brian Costello & Rip Oliver at 4:06 when Dynamite pinned Costello The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Rick Gantner at 2:26 with the front suplex Jim Duggan pinned Barry Horowitz at 1:43 with the running clothesline Rick Rude & Hercules (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Scott Casey & Jim Evans via submission at 3:1710/25/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Jimmy Hart; featured the ‘Girls in Cars’ music video from the Piledriver Album: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Van Van Horne at 2:59 with the flying elbow drop Ted DiBiase (w/ Virgil) defeated Tony Parks via submission at 2:55 Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Steve Lombardi & Tom Stone at 5:00 when Santana pinned Stone with the flying forearm The Ultimate Warrior pinned Terry Gibbs at 1:38 after a splash; during the bout, Warrior cut an insert promo (Warrior’s TV debut) (The Self Destruction of the Ultimate Warrior) Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Sonny Rogers & Chris Zarna at 4:05 following the Decapitation on Zarna11/1/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, discussing the Survivor Series main event: Brutus Beefcake defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification in a non-title match at 2:04 when Hart climbed in the ring with the megaphone as Beefcake had the sleeper applied; after the match, Beefcake applied the sleeper on Hart and began cutting his hair until Danny Davis attacked Beefcake from behind and helped Hart from the ring; moments later, Beefcake scared the champion from the ring (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake) Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) defeated SD Jones & Lanny Poffo at 2:41 when Zhukov pinned Poffo (Bolsheviks’ TV debut) Sam Houston pinned Rick Renslow at 2:12 with a bulldog Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Chris Curtis at 2:08 with the flying kneedrop after spraying green mist into his opponent’s eyes B. Brian Blair, Jim Brunzell, & Koko B. Ware defeated Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo & Johnny V at 3:32 when Koko pinned Johnny V with a dropkick off the topDark matches: Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. the One Man Gang (w/ Slick)WWF @ Topeka, KS – Kansas Expocentre – October 8, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Barry Horowitz David Sammartino vs. Tiger Chung Lee Steve Lombardi vs. ? Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Brutus Beefcake vs. Nikolai Volkoff (sub. for Ron Bass) Paul Orndorff vs. King Kong BundyWWF @ Hamburg, NJ – Wallkill Valley Regional High School – October 8, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Iron Mike Sharpe The Ultimate Warrior vs. Jose Estrada Jim Duggan vs. Sika Billy Jack Haynes vs. Danny Davis WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Hartower Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Greg Valentine & Dino BravoWWF @ Duluth, MN – Arena – October 8, 1987 (4,250) Sivi Afi & Brady Boone defeated the Shadows Dan Spivey pinned SD Jones WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Princess Jasmine (sub. for Velvet McIntyre) Koko B. Ware defeated the One Man Gang via count-out Killer Khan defeated the Junkyard Dog WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification at 8:32WWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – October 9, 1987 (3,738)Featured Bruce Prichard, Mike McGuirk, & Pete Doherty on commentary:Wrestling Spotlight – 11/7/87: Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz at 8:12 with a bulldogPrime Time Wrestling – 11/12/87: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 3:35 with the slingshot splashPrime Time Wrestling – 11/19/87: Boris Zhukov (sub. for Ron Bass) pinned SD Jones at 5:28 with a headbutt to the chest after Jones ran into the ringpost Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out at 9:52 when Virgil shoved Hogan into the ringpost after Hogan had threw Dibiase back in the ring when both men were brawling on the floor; after the bout, Hogan chased Dibiase & Virgil out of the ring after Virgil was about to wrap the title belt around Dibiase’s waist; after the bout, Bruce Prichard interviewed Hogan where he said he wanted Dibiase back in the ring again no matter what the stipulation was, and the only way Dibiase would be able to get the title would be to beat him in the ring for it; later in the show Prichard also interviewed Dibiase who said he was the uncrowned champion and that he wanted Hogan back in the ring as wellPrime Time Wrestling – 11/12/87: WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Hillbilly Jim at 7:20 with a roll up and using the challenger’s overalls for leverage after Jim missed a charge into the corner; after the bout, Jim was double-teamed until Randy Savage made the save when Honky was about to hit Jim with the guitar, Savage then destroyed the guitar; Bruce Prichard then interviewed Savage, who said he wanted Honky in the ring whether it was for the IC title or not after what Honky did to him on Saturday Night’s Main Event; later in the show, Prichard also interviewed Honky & Hart where it was announced the match had been signed at the next card on 11/6 with Honky saying he had plenty more guitars he could useInternational Wrestling Challenge: Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine at 8:30 by lifting his shoulder following a back suplex from ValentinePrime Time Wrestling – 12/31/87: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 4:40 with a roll up after avoiding Khan’s attempt at spitting green mist in Savage’s facePrime Time Wrestling – 11/5/87: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell in a Best 2 out of 3 falls, 2-1, at 17:49; fall #1: Ax pinned Blair at 8:59 after raising his knees as Blair came off the top; fall #2: Brunzell pinned Smash at 10:39 with a dropkick; fall #3: Smash pinned Brunzell after Ax clotheslined Brunzell using Fuji’s cane as he stood on the apron (Allied Powers)WWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Convention Center – October 9, 1987 David Sammartino pinned Tiger Chung Lee Dan Spivey pinned Outback Jack Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. King Kong Bundy defeated George Steele via count-out The Shadows vs. Sivi Afi & Danny Cox (sub. for Brady Boone) Koko B. Ware vs. the One Man Gang Paul Orndorff defeated King Harley Race in an old fashioned whipping match; George Steele was handcuffed to Bobby Heenan at ringsideWWF @ Utica, NY – Memorial Auditorium – October 9, 1987 Lanny Poffo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe The Ultimate Warrior pinned Jose Estrada Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham Jim Duggan pinned Sika Billy Jack Haynes defeated Danny Davis via count-out WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Hartower Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Dino Bravo & Johnny VWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – October 10, 1987 The Ultimate Warrior pinned Jose Estrada Lanny Poffo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe King Harley Race defeated Paul Orndorff via count-out Rick Rude pinned Billy Jack Haynes WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Hartower Jim Duggan pinned Sika Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Ted Dibiase pinned George SteeleWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – October 10, 1987 (14,686) David Sammartino pinned Tiger Chung Lee The One Man Gang pinned Koko B. Ware Randy Savage pinned Hercules Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man pinned Ricky Steamboat Spike Huber (sub. for Brady Boone) & SD Jones defeated the Shadows Dan Spivey pinned Outback Jack WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer KhanWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – October 10, 1987 (4,500)Televised on the PRISM Network – included Dick Graham & Craig DeGeorge on commentary Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz at 13:06 with a bulldog Brutus Beefcake pinned Danny Davis with a running kneelift at 11:11 Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Superstar Billy Graham at 7:08 with his feet on the ropes for leverage Bob Orton Jr. pinned Sivi Afi at 11:20 with a reverse splash off the middle turnbuckle Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Boris Zhukov) pinned Jim Powers at 10:32 by picking him up in a gorilla press slam and dropping him across his knee Boris Zhukov (w/ Nikolai Volkoff) pinned Hillbilly Jim at 9:07 after Volkoff tripped Jim from the outside Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned King Kong Bundy with a splash at 5:25 after Bundy missed a splash of his own Jerry Allen pinned Frenchy Martin at 5:35 with a reverse flying bodypress; Allen was referred to as “Jerry Martin” by the ring announcer The Islanders defeated Tito Santana & Rick Martel at 16:21 when Haku pinned Santana with a diving headbutt as he had the figure-4 applied on TamaWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – October 11, 1987 (matinee) (6,549)Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Johnny V on commentary: Paul Roma pinned Jose Estrada with a backslide; Slick did guest commentary for the match, replacing Johnny V Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz after reversing a sunset flip into a forward roll; Sir Oliver Humperdink did guest commentary for the match, replacing Johnny VPrime Time Wrestling – 10/29/87: Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Superstar Billy Graham at 6:06 with his feet on the ropes after Graham punched Slick off the ring apron; Sir Oliver Humperdink did guest commentary for the bout, replacing Johnny VPrime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: King Kong Bundy pinned Sivi Afi at 3:04 after hitting the AvalanchePrime Time Wrestling – 10/29/87: Jim Duggan pinned Johnny K-9 (sub. for Killer Khan) at 2:42 with the running clotheslinePrime Time Wrestling – 11/5/87: Boris Zhukov (sub. for Ron Bass) (w/ Slick) pinned Hillbilly Jim at 11:14 with a running knee to the back after Jim became distracted by Slick on the ring apron; Jim used his song “Waking up Alone” from the Piledriver album as his theme music for the bout; Sir Oliver Humperdink did guest commentary for the match, replacing Johnny VPrime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: Don Muraco pinned Kimchee at 4:22 with the tombstone (Kimchee’s last appearance for nearly 5 years)Prime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) fought Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid to a double disqualification at 8:58 after Dynamite and Bravo shoved the referee down; after the bout, Smith chased Bravo & Johnny V backstage with Matilda, with Valentine jumping off the ramp instead after he began kicking at Matilda; Billy Red Lyons did guest commentary for the bout, subbing for Johnny V Rick Rude (w/ Andre the Giant) pinned Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) after Andre pulled the middle rope down, causing Orndorff to fall to the floor, when Andre then headbutting him before throwing him back inside the ring; Bobby Heenan was barred from the building during the matchWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – October 11, 1987 (2,429) The Ultimate Warrior pinned George Skaaland WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Hartower Tito Santana pinned Tama Haku pinned Rick Martel after Tama interfered George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Sika pinned Lanny Poffo Billy Jack Haynes fought Hercules to a draw Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ Springfield, MO – Hammons Student Center – October 11, 1987Mike McGuirk was the ring announcer for the show Karate Chris Dube & Little Gomez defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo The Shadows defeated SD Jones & Spike Huber (sub. for Brady Boone) David Sammartino defeated Tiger Chung Lee Dan Spivey defeated Outback Jack Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Koko B. Ware defeated the Demon (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Brutus Beefcake Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated the One Man GangWWF @ Pittsfield, MA – Boys Club – October 12, 1987 (1,000) Jerry Allen pinned Terry Gibbs WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Hartower Paul Roma defeated Shadow #1 Nikolai Volkoff pinned SD Jones George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy GrahamWWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – October 12, 1987 David Sammartino vs. Frenchy Martin Scott Casey vs. Rip Oliver Sam Houston vs. Dan Spivey Billy Jack Haynes vs. King Harley Race WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Debbie Combs Bam Bam Bigelow vs. the One Man Gang Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders (best 2 out of 3 falls)WWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – October 12, 1987 (3,400) Lanny Poffo pinned Jose Estrada Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man pinned Don Muraco Steve Lombardi pinned Outback Jack Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out Hercules pinned Hillbilly Jim Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Sivi Afi Hercules won a battle royal by last eliminating Don MuracoWWF @ Wayne, NJ – William Paterson College – October 13, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. George Skaaland The Shadows vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Outback Jack vs. Jose Estrada Iron Mike Sharpe vs. Ivan Putski Hercules vs. Hillbilly Jim Don Muraco vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Poughkeepsie, NY – Mid-Hudson Civic Center – October 13, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. Terry Gibbs Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. Steve Lombardi & Barry Horowitz Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Harteur vs. WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai SD Jones vs. Nikolai Volkoff George Steele vs. Danny Davis Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – October 14, 1987 Hillbilly Jim vs. Hercules Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. the Shadows Ivan Putski vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Don Muraco vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Lock Haven, PA – Thomas Fieldhouse – October 14, 1987 Jerry Allen pinned Terry Gibbs WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Harteur when Kai pinned Harteur Nikolai Volkoff pinned SD Jones Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham using his feet on the ropes for leverage George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Barry Horowitz & Steve Lombardi when Roma pinned LombardiWWF @ Johnstown, PA – Cambria County War Memorial Arena – October 15, 1987 Jerry Allen pinned Terry Gibbs SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi George Steele defeated Danny Davis via count-out Jim Duggan pinned Nikolai Volkoff WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Velvet McIntyre & Olympia Harteur when Kai pinned Harteur Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Shadows when Roma pinned Shadow #1 Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy GrahamWWF @ Tampa, FL – SunDome – October 15, 1987 Dan Spivey defeated David Sammartino Frenchy Martin defeated Scott Casey Billy Jack Haynes defeated Rip Oliver The One Man Gang defeated Koko B. Ware Paul Orndorff defeated Hercules WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders in a best 2 out of 3 falls match Randy Savage defeated King Harley RaceWWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – October 15, 1987 Outback Jack vs. George Skaaland Lanny Poffo vs. Jose Estrada Ivan Putski vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Brutus Beefcake defeated Sika via submission with the sleeper; after the bout, Beefcake cut some of Sika’s hair WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated the Junkyard Dog WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) in a Mongolian Stretcher Match following five consecutive legdrops after avoiding Khan’s green mist and throwing salt in Fuji’s eyes; after the bout, Khan was taken out on a stretcherWWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – October 16, 1987 (8,978) Steve Lombardi pinned Jerry Allen George Steele defeated Bob Orton Jr. via count-out SD Jones pinned Terry Gibbs King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man pinned Ricky Steamboat by using the tights for leverage Demolition defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Debbie Combs Ken Patera defeated King Kong Bundy via count-out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang at 11:29WWF @ Birmingham, AL – Jefferson Civic Center – October 16, 1987 WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Ted Dibiase vs. Brutus Beefcake Also included Koko B. Ware, Jim Duggan & Hillbilly JimWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – October 16, 1987 (19,700; sell out)Televised on the MSG Network – featured Gorilla Monsoon & Nick Bockwinkel on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 11/12/87: Outback Jack pinned Jose Estrada at 9:44 with a powerslam; Bobby Heenan provided commentary for the bout and afterwards introduced Nick Bockwinkel to fill in for him for the remainder of the show B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) when Blair pinned Valentine with a sunset flip from the top at 10:57 after an illegal double switch by using their masksPrime Time Wrestling – 10/29/87: Ivan Putski pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 5:34 with the Polish Hammer Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Paul Orndorff (w/ Oliver Humperdink) via count-out at 10:41 after Heenan hit Orndorff with a chair while Orndorff was climbing back in the ring; Orndorff had punched Heenan off the apron moments earlier, with Nick Bockwinkel leaving the broadcast position to help Heenan back to his feet; prior to the bout, Orndorff won a prematch posedown over RudeAll American Wrestling – 11/8/87: Don Muraco pinned Sika (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 8:20 after ramming his knee into Sika’s head as Muraco fell from the top Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 10:14 with the flying elbowsmash after blocking Khan’s green mist with his hands, rubbing it in Khan’s face and hitting a powerslam; after the bout, Savage cleared Fuji from the ring with an atomic drop after he attempted to sneak attack Savage Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed in a steel cage match at 10:59 by escaping the cage through the door after hitting Reed with his own brass knucklesPrime Time Wrestling – 10/22/87: Billy Jack Haynes pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 5:27 with a roll upPrime Time Wrestling – 5/30/88: Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders in a Best 2 out of 3 falls match, 2-1; fall #1 – Haku pinned Santana at 7:11 after a double set of headbutts; fall #2 – Santana pinned Tama at 8:07 with a small package, which Martel had reversed behind the referee’s back to put Santana on top; fall #3 – Martel pinned Tama with a roll up at 10:27 after Tama collided with Haku on the ring apronWWF @ Toledo, OH – Sports Arena – October 17, 1987 (2,899) Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham Brutus Beefcake defeated King Harley Race Bam Bam Bigelow pinned the One Man GangWWF @ Wichita, KS – Kansas Coliseum – October 17, 1987 Ted Dibiase vs. the Junkyard Dog WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Erie, PA – Civic Center – October 17, 1987 (6,199) Ken Patera vs. Nikolai Volkoff Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine Jim Duggan vs. Killer Khan Rick Rude vs. Billy Jack Haynes Paul Orndorff vs. Hercules WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Kong Bundy at 7:45WWF @ Louisville, KY – Louisville Gardens – October 18, 1987 Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Outlaw Ron Bass vs. Koko B. Ware Nikolai Volkoff vs. Jim Duggan Rick Rude vs. Paul Orndorff Also included Brady Boone, Bob Orton Jr. & Ken PateraWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – October 18, 1987 (11,079) Don Muraco pinned Hercules Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated the Junkyard Dog Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification when Bret hit Dynamite with Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as he was pinning Neidhart Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated the One Man Gang via count-out; Slick was the guest ring announcer for the boutWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – October 18, 1987 (5,000) Rip Oliver pinned Scott Casey Billy Jack Haynes defeated Boris Zhukov The Ultimate Warrior defeated Steve Lombardi George Steele fought Danny Davis to a double disqualification Ted Dibiase pinned Brutus Beefcake The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy Randy Savage pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ Muskegon, MI – Walker Arena – October 19, 1987 (3,829) Lanny Poffo pinned Barry Horowitz Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. Demolition defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Rick Rude pinned Koko B. Ware Jim Duggan pinned Nikolai Volkoff Ken Patera pinned HerculesWWF @ Portland, OR – Memorial Coliseum – October 19, 1987 (4,388) The Ultimate Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi Danny Davis defeated George Steele via disqualification at around the 5-minute mark Boris Zhukov pinned Scott Casey Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy with a splash at 5:40 Billy Jack Haynes pinned Rip Oliver Ted Dibiase pinned Brutus Beefcake after Virgil tripped Beefcake from the outside; after the bout, Beefcake cut some of the referee’s hair Randy Savage pinned King Harley Race The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito SantanaWWF @ Portsmouth, OH – Grant School – October 19, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. George Skaaland Brady Boone vs. Danny Spivey Raymond Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine Jacques Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo The Junkyard Dog vs. Ron Bass WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Lebanon, PA – High School – October 20, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. George Skaaland Dan Spivey defeated Brady Boone Raymond Rougeau pinned Steve Blackman (sub. for Greg Valentine) (Blackman’s debut) Jacques Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo Jim Duggan pinned Ron Bass Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualificationWWF @ Spokane, WA – Coliseum – October 20, 1987 Billy Jack Haynes vs. Boris Zhukov George Steele vs. Danny Davis Brutus Beefcake vs. Ted Dibiase Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong BundyWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – October 20, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Barry Horowitz Lanny Poffo vs. Terry Gibbs Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Demolition Koko B. Ware vs. Nikolai Volkoff Ken Patera vs. Hercules Randy Savage vs. Rick RudeWWF @ St. Joseph, MO – Civic Arena – October 21, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Barry Horowitz Lanny Poffo vs. Boris Zhukov Demolition vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Koko B. Ware vs. Nikolai Volkoff Ken Patera vs. Hercules Randy Savage vs. Rick RudeWWF @ Frederick, MD – Gov. Thomas Johnson High School Gym – October 21, 1987 Jerry Allen vs. George Skaaland Brady Boone vs. Danny Spivey Jacques Rougeau vs. Greg Valentine Raymond Rougeau vs. Dino Bravo Jim Duggan vs. Ron Bass WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Victoria, British Columbia – Memorial Arena – October 21, 1987 Rip Oliver vs. Scott Casey George Steele vs. Danny Davis Tito Santana vs. Haku Billy Jack Haynes vs. Tama Brutus Beefcake vs. Ted Dibiase Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong BundyWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – October 22, 1987 The Ultimate Warrior defeated Steve Lombardi Koko B. Ware defeated Bob Orton Jr. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition George Steele fought Danny Davis to a double disqualification Brutus Beefcake defeated Ted Dibiase Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders Randy Savage defeated HerculesWWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – October 22, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Barry Horowitz Don Muraco vs. Danny Spivey Hillbilly Jim vs. Killer Khan WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Ken Patera vs. King Kong Bundy Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude; including a prematch posedownWWF @ Augusta, GA – Civic Center – October 23, 1987 Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated Olympia Hartaurer & Debbie Combs Dan Spivey defeated Brady Boone The Ultimate Warrior defeated Steve Lombardi WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jim Brunzell & B. Brian Blair King Kong Bundy defeated Ken Patera Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude; prior to the match, Orndorff beat Rude in a posedown contest Randy Savage pinned Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) (w/ Ted Dibiase) following the flying elbowsmashWWF @ Paris, France – Bercy Stadium – October 23, 1987 (12,000; sell out)Televised on Canal+ – featured Guy Hauray & Frenchy Martin on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 1/18/88: SD Jones pinned Sika with a sunset flip at 4:04; Jones used “Piledriver” as his theme music for the boutPrime Time Wrestling – 1/4/88: WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre at 14:31 when the momentum of a crossbody by the challenger put Sherri on top Jim Duggan pinned the Iron Sheik at 5:54 with the running clothesline King Harley Race defeated the Junkyard Dog via disqualification at 14:32 when guest referee Andre the Giant kicked JYD out of the ring and awarded Race the match for JYD repeatedly using a headbutt against Andre’s orders (The Best of the WWF Vol. 16)Prime Time Wrestling – 1/12/88: Cowboy Lang pinned Lord Littlebrook at 12:20 after hooking Littlebrook down with his feet; Lang used Jimmy Hart’s “Crank it Up” theme for his entrance Outback Jack (w/ Jim Duggan) pinned Nikolai Volkoff at 4:29 with an elbow drop after Duggan tripped Volkoff from the outside; prior to the bout, the Iron Sheik escorted Volkoff to the ring but was chased away by Duggan when Duggan ran out as Volkoff was singing the Russian National Anthem Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo at 22:34 when Raymond pinned Valentine with a sunset flip as Valentine attempted the figure-4 on Jacques (The Best of the WWF Vol. 16)WWF @ Pontiac, MI – Silverdome – October 23, 1987 (6,625) Lanny Poffo pinned Barry Horowitz Koko B. Ware pinned Bob Orton Jr. Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man pinned Brutus Beefcake Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualification when one of the Demos used Mr. Fuji’s cane as a weapon Don Muraco pinned Hercules Ron Bass pinned Hillbilly Jim WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer KhanWWF @ Atlanta, GA – Omni – October 24, 1987 (matinee) (1,924) Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong Bundy WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude; including a prematch posedown WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Randy SavageWWF @ Winnipeg, Manitoba – Arena – October 24, 1987 (matinee) (7,683) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz Lanny Poffo defeated Buddy Lane (Dave Kochen) Koko B. Ware defeated Ron Bass via count-out Ken Patera pinned Ron Bass Ken Patera pinned Boris Zhukov (sub. for Hercules) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualification Brutus Beefcake defeated Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) via submission with the sleeper WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man GangWWF @ Cornwall, Ontario – Civic Complex – October 24, 1987 Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Shadows Don Muraco defeated Bob Orton Jr. Killer Khan defeated Hillbilly Jim Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy Graham Included 2 other matchesWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – October 24, 1987 Valvet McIntyre & Olympia Harteur vs. Leilani Kai & Judy Martin The Ultimate Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Brady Boone vs. Dan Spivey WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong Bundy Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Milan, Italy – October 24, 1987 (8,500)Televised on Italia1: SD Jones pinned Sika WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Velvet McIntyre The Junkyard Dog pinned King Harley Race Jim Duggan pinned the Iron Sheik Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine Outback Jack pinned Nikolai Volkoff with an elbow drop after Jim Duggan tripped Volkoff from the floorWWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – October 25, 1987 (14,002) (matinee) The Ultimate Warrior pinned Danny Spivey at 10:02 Jim Powers pinned Shadow #2 at 12:57 Paul Roma pinned Shadow #1 at 12:38 with a flying bodypress Don Muraco pinned Bob Orton Jr. at 4:38 Killer Khan pinned Hillbilly Jim at 9:17 Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualification at 8:16 following an illegal switch between Ax and Smash Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham at 6:37 Bam Bam Bigelow & Paul Orndorff defeated King Kong Bundy & Rick Rude (w/ Andre the Giant) at 23:37 when Bigelow pinned Bundy with a splashWWF @ Ottawa, Ontario – Civic Centre – October 25, 1987 Paul Roma defeated Shadow #1 Jim Powers defeated Shadow #2 Hillbilly Jim defeated Bob Orton Jr. The Ultimate Warrior pinned Dan Spivey Don Muraco defeated Killer Khan via count-out Rick Rude defeated Paul Orndorff Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Demolition via disqualification Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy Graham Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy with a splash after avoiding a splash from BundyWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – October 25, 1987 (4,346) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz Boris Zhukov pinned Lanny Poffo Brutus Beefcake defeated Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) (w/ Ted Dibiase) via submission with the sleeper WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan fought the One Man Gang to a double count-out Ken Patera pinned Hercules Koko B. Ware pinned Ron Bass WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – October 26, 1987 Boris Zhukov defeated Sivi Afi Sika defeated Brady Boone The One Man Gang pinned Outback Jack with a splash Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis via count-out Jim Duggan defeated Nikolai Volkoff The Junkyard Dog defeated Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for King Harley Race) Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera fought WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart to a no contest Paul Orndorff & Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy & Hercules (w/ Andre the Giant) at 14:00 when Bigelow pinned Hercules with a splash; Bobby Heenan was barred from the building for the matchWWF @ Watertown, NY – High School Gym – October 26, 1987 The Ultimate Warrior vs. an unknown Ron Bass vs. an unknown Paul Roma & Jim Powers vs. the Shadows Don Muraco vs. Bob Orton Jr. Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Demolition Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ Binghamton, NY – Broome County Arena – October 26, 1987 (1,869) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz Brutus Beefcake pinned Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) (w/ Dibiase) at around the 5-minute mark Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at around the 17-minute mark Killer Khan pinned Lanny Poffo Rick Rude pinned Hillbilly Jim WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification at around the 7-minute markWWF @ Syracuse, NY – War Memorial – October 27, 1987 (6,000; sell out)WWF Superstars taping: Brutus Beefcake defeated Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) via submission with the sleeper WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji)Prime Time Wrestling – 11/19/87: Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Gino Carabello & Tom Barnett at 6:01 when Powers pinned Carabello with a powerslam11/7/87 – included Craig DeGeorge interviewing Jim Duggan in which he was attacked from behind by King Harley Race, with Race hitting him with his own 2×4 after Duggan became distracted by Bobby Heenan; moments later, Race regained his crown and robe which Duggan had stolen; featured DeGeorge interviewing Randy Savage’s Survivor Series team, with Savage discussing their participation at the upcoming pay-per-view; included a Sam Houston promo gloating over his victory over Danny Davis the previous week; featured closing comments from Superstar Billy Graham and Butch Reed & Slick regarding their match the following week: Jake Roberts pinned Rip Oliver at 2:58 with the DDT King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Pete Lucic at the 50-second mark with an elbow drop following the Avalanche in the corner; prior to the bout, Heenan introduced Andre the Giant, who made his way to ringside with the rest of his Survivor Series team, all of whom remained ringside for the duration of the bout; after the match, Bruno Sammartino was shown in the broadcast booth stretching a Bundy stretch wrestling doll, saying that’s what could happen to him at the Survivor Series Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Ray Miller & Terry Gibbs at 1:08 when Miller submitted to Haynes’ full nelson Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Kurt Hoffman at 1:29 with the flying kneedrop after spitting green mist in his opponent’s face Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) to win the titles at 9:08 when Neidhart submitted to Martel’s Boston Crab after sustaining a double bodyslam; after the bout, the new champions were interviewed backstage, celebrating with WWF President Jack Tunney, Bam Bam Bigelow, Hillbilly Jim, and the Junkyard Dog (Best of the WWF Vol. 15)11/14/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Andre the Giant’s Survivor Series team, with Bobby Heenan, Slick, and Andre stretching out a Hulk Hogan stretch wrestling doll and Heenan saying that’s what will happen to Hogan in the match; featured Gene Okerlund conducting an interview with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, Danny Davis, Ron Bass, & Jimmy Hart regarding their Survivor Series match; included a video package on Brutus Beefcake; featured the ‘Demolition’ music video from Piledriver; featured highlights of last week’s tag team title change; included comments from Danny Davis and Sam Houston regarding their match 2 weeks earlier; featured the Ted Dibiase basketball segment taped 10/6 in Milwaukee; included closing comments from Ricky Steamboat and WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man regarding their title match the following week: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Gino Carabello at 1:17 with the slingshot splash Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) defeated Mario Mancini & Jerry Allen at 1:53 when Zhukov pinned Mancini with a running headbutt Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Carmine Surace at 2:37 with the piledriver The Ultimate Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi at 2:07 with the gorilla press slam / splash combo; during the match, Warrior cut an insert promo (Ultimate Warrior: The Ultimate Collection) Don Muraco pinned Dave Wagner at the 46-second mark with the tombstone Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed (w/ Slick) via disqualification at 2:25 when the One Man Gang interfered as Graham had Slick in the bearhug; after the bout, OMG hit three splashes on Graham’s injured hip before Don Muraco made the save; as Muraco was brawling with Reed, OMG hit another splash on Graham outside the ring; this incident is credited as ending Graham’s wrestling career11/21/87 – featured an ‘Update’ segment showing the ending to last week’s Graham / Reed match, with the announcement that Don Muraco would be replacing Graham at the Survivor Series; included an interview with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Bam Bam Bigelow, Ken Patera, Paul Orndorff, & Don Muraco regarding their match at the Survivor Series; featured Gene Okerlund conducting an interview with Andre the Giant’s Survivor Series team; included comments from Ted Dibiase about the Survivor Series in which he said he only needed money to survive; featured comments from the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart about Honky’s match with Ricky Steamboat; included closing comments from Brutus Beefcake and Greg Valentine regarding their match the following week: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated the Gladiator & Dusty Wolfe at 3:22 when Dynamite pinned Wolfe with a diving headbutt after being thrown by Smith Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Gary Starr via submission with the backbreaker at 1:31 Jim Duggan pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 3:03 with the running clothesline The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Dick Flanagan at 1:31 with a splash The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Bill Wood & Leo Morgan at 3:39 when Tama pinned Morgan with a splash off the top Ricky Steamboat (w/ Randy Savage, Brutus Beefcake, Jim Duggan, & Jake Roberts) fought WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart, Danny Davis, King Harley Race, Ron Bass, & Hercules) to a double disqualification at 3:42 when all the outside participants began brawling in the ringWWF @ Rochester, NY – War Memorial Arena – October 28, 1987 (7,600; sell out)Wrestling Challenge taping: Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Hercules (sub. for Ted Dibiase) Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang; prior to the bout, OMG was attacked by a fan by the name of Joe D’Aquisto before the fan was subdued by securityPrime Time Wrestling – 11/5/87: Sam Houston pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 10:38 with a bulldog; Jimmy Hart did guest commentary for the bout alongside Bruce Prichard and Mike McGuirkPrime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: Ricky Steamboat defeated Ron Bass via count-out at 6:53 after shoving Bass into the steel ring post as both men were brawling on the floor; after the bout, Bass attacked Steamboat and attempted to use his whip, Miss Betsy, as a weapon but Steamboat dropkicked him to the floor (Best of the WWF Vol. 14)11/8/87 – included comments from Ted Dibiase, who called George Steele stupid for being unable to find the arena for their scheduled match; included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man & Jimmy Hart; included the ‘Jive Soul Bro’ music video from the Piledriver Album; included the Strike Force / Hart Foundation match from Superstars, shown in full: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Terry Gibbs at 1:12 with a slingshot splash into the ring The Ultimate Warrior pinned Barry Horowitz at 1:51 with the press slam; during the bout, Warrior cut an insert promo (Ultimate Warrior: The Ultimate Collection) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) via disqualification at 3:14 when Johnny V interfered The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated SD Jones & Jerry Allen at 2:19 when Tama pinned Allen with a splash off the top Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Omar Atlas at 1:14 with a clothesline11/15/87 – included an interview with Bret Hart, Jim Neidhart, the Islanders, Demolition, Greg Valentine, Dino Bravo, Nikolai Volkoff, & Boris Zhukov regarding their match at the Survivor Series: Jake Roberts pinned Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick & Boris Zhukov) at 3:06 with a roll up; after the bout, Roberts used Damien to hold off all three men Rick Rude defeated Brady Boone via submission at 1:20 Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Gino Carabello & Dave Wagner at 2:58 when Carabello submitted to Haynes’ full nelson Jim Duggan pinned Dusty Wolfe at 1:07 with the running clothesline Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Rip Oliver at 2:28 with the flying elbow drop11/22/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Andre the Giant, Bobby Heenan, & Slick regarding the Survivor Series main event: WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Barry Horowitz & Terry Gibbs in a non-title match at 3:25 when Gibbs submitted to Martel’s Boston Crab The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Carmine Surace at 1:13 with the front suplex Demolition (w/Mr. Fuji) defeated Pete Lusik & Omar Atlas at 3:04 following the Decapitation on Lusik Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Jose Estrada at 2:40 with the slingshot suplex into the ring Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) defeated Lanny Poffo & Van Van Horne at 2:41 when Zhukov pinned Horne after a flying headbutt Brutus Beefcake pinned Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 3:53 after throwing an interfering Hart off the top onto Davis; after the bout, Beefcake put Hart in the sleeper and was about to cut his hair until Davis pulled his manager out of the ring (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake)WWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – October 29, 1987 Dan Spivey defeated SD Jones Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Scott Casey Billy Jack Haynes defeated Ron Bass (sub. for Killer Khan) Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy Graham Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana Rip Oliver defeated Jerry Allen George Steele defeated Danny Davis WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ San Francisco, CA – Cow Palace – October 30, 1987 (6,422) Rip Oliver pinned Jerry Allen Billy Jack Haynes fought Ron Bass to a draw Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham by using the ropes for leverage Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy via disqualification when Bundy stole Sir Oliver Humperdink’s cane and used it as a weapon The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana when Haku pinned Santana; Martel & Santana were not recognized as tag team champions since their win had not yet aired on TV Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Scott Casey George Steele pinned Danny Davis WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-out– 10/31/87: Eddie Gilbert and Missy Hyatt were married.WWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – October 31, 1987 (matinee) (7,019) Rip Oliver pinned Jerry Allen Billy Jack Haynes fought Ron Bass to a draw Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham by using the ropes for leverage Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy via disqualification when Bundy stole Sir Oliver Humperdink’s cane and used it as a weapon The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana; Martel & Santana were not recognized as tag team champions since their win had not yet aired on TV Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Scott Casey George Steele pinned Danny Davis WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-outWWF @ Glens Falls, NY – Civic Center – October 31, 1987 (matinee) Jake Roberts vs. Sika Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Rick Rude vs. Paul Orndorff; including a prematch posedown WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Worcester, MA – Centrum – October 31, 1987 Lanny Poffo pinned Jose Estrada Jake Roberts pinned Sika Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude via disqualification Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov The Junkyard Dog pinned Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for Ted Dibiase) Jim Duggan fought King Harley Race to a double count-out Frenchy Martin pinned Sivi Afi WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man GangWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – October 31, 1987 (3,225) Rip Oliver pinned Jerry Allen Billy Jack Haynes fought Ron Bass to a draw Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham by using the ropes for leverage Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy via disqualification when Bundy stole Sir Oliver Humperdink’s cane and used it as a weapon The Islanders defeated Rick Martel & Tito Santana; Martel & Santana were not recognized as tag team champions since their win had not yet aired on TV Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Scott Casey George Steele pinned Danny Davis WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-outWWF @ Portland, ME – Civic Center – November 1, 1987 (8,686) (matinee) Lanny Poffo pinned Jose Estrada Frenchy Martin pinned Sivi Afi Jake Roberts pinned Sika Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Boris Zhukov & Nikolai Volkoff Jim Duggan fought King Harley Race to a double count-out Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude via disqualification WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man GangWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – November 1, 1987Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Nick Bockwinkel on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 11/30/87: Frenchy Martin pinned Lanny Poffo at 4:17 with a flying clotheslinePrime Time Wrestling – 11/30/87: Jake Roberts pinned Sika at 7:33 with a roll up after Sika hit the cornerPrime Time Wrestling – 11/30/87: Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers at 15:19 when Bravo pinned Roma following a back suplexPrime Time Wrestling – 12/10/87: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov when Davey pinned Zhukov at 13:59 after Dynamite swept Zhukov’s legs out from under him as Zhukov attempted a suplex on Smith into the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 11/19/87: WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Debbie Combs by reversing an airplane spin into a small packagePrime Time Wrestling – 11/30/87: King Harley Race pinned the Junkyard Dog at 7:52 when JYD fell backwards over the referee who had been knocked down while attempting a powerslamPrime Time Wrestling – 11/19/87: Jim Duggan pinned Bob Orton Jr. (sub. for Ted Dibiase) at 4:42 with a small package after hitting him with the 2×4 behind the referee’s back Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude in a steel cage match at 7:29 by escaping over the top after crotching Rude on the top ropeWWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Convention Center – November 1, 1987 (2,816) (matinee) Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Jerry Allen Dan Spivey pinned Scott Casey Ron Bass pinned SD Jones Billy Jack Haynes pinned Danny Davis Killer Khan defeated George Steele via count-out Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham by using the ropes for leverage Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy at around the 4-minute mark Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders; Martel & Santana were not yet recognized as tag team champions WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification at around 6:50 when Savage punched referee Dave HebnerWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – November 1, 1987 (6,025) Iron Mike Sharpe pinned Jerry Allen Jim Brunzell defeated Danny Davis via disqualification Dan Spivey pinned Scott Casey Ron Bass pinned SD Jones at around the 3-minute mark Killer Khan defeated George Steele via count-out The One Man Gang pinned Billy Jack Haynes with a splash Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy at around the 5-minute mark Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders in a Best 2 out of 3 falls match at around the 10-minute mark; since Martel & Santana’s title win had yet to air, they were not recognized as tag team champions WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Kingston, Ontario – Memorial Arena – November 2, 1987CancelledWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – November 2, 1987Held as part of the Arizona State Fair Paul Orndorff vs. Rick RudeWWF @ Battle Creek, MI – Kellogg Center Arena – November 2, 1987 (1,700) Jose Estrada pinned Lanny Poffo Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma The Junkyard Dog defeated Ron Bass WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs Jake Roberts pinned Killer Khan Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy GrahamWWF @ Lansing, MI – Civic Center – November 3, 1987 The Junkyard Dog vs. Ron Bass WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Debbie Combs Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules Jake Roberts vs. Killer Khan Superstar Billy Graham vs. Butch ReedWWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – November 3, 1987CancelledWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – November 3, 1987 Don Muraco vs. Sika George Steele vs. Danny Davis Bret Hart defeated Davey Boy Smith via count-out The Dynamite Kid vs. Jim Neidhart The One Man Gang pinned Koko B. Ware with a splash Rick Rude & King Harley Race defeated Paul Orndorff & Jim Duggan when Rude pinned Orndorff with his feet on the ropes Also included a bunkhouse brawlWWF @ Halifax, Nova Scotia – Forum – November 4, 1987 (6,000) Lanny Poffo pinned Jose Estrada WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Debbie Combs The Junkyard Dog defeated Ron Bass via disqualification Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules Jake Roberts pinned Killer Khan Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo when Patera pinned Valentine Superstar Billy Graham defeated Butch Reed in a steel cage matchWWF @ El Paso, TX – Civic Center – November 4, 1987 Included Paul OrndorffWWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – November 5, 1987 (2,100) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Debbie Combs Jim Dickson pinned SD Jones Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Superstar Billy Graham & the Junkyard Dog when Valentine pinned Graham at around the 5-minute mark Ken Patera defeated Killer Khan via count-out after Billy Jack Haynes hit Khan with a chair Billy Jack Haynes fought Ron Bass to a draw Brutus Beefcake pinned Hercules Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Butch Reed after Slick’s interference backfired; after the bout, Slick paid Reed off to calm him down after Reed became furious that the interference cost him the match WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jake Roberts via count-out; Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage for the boutWWF @ Beaumont, TX – Civic Center – November 5, 1987 Dan Spivey vs. Sam Houston The Ultimate Warrior vs. Barry Horowitz Rip Oliver vs. Scott Casey Don Muraco vs. Sika The One Man Gang vs. George Steele Koko B. Ware vs. Danny Davis Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Rick Rude vs. Paul OrndorffWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – November 6, 1987Featured Bruce Prichard, Mike McGuirk, & Pete Doherty on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: Dan Spivey pinned Sam Houston at 7:51 with a reverse neckbreakerPrime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: Scott Casey pinned Barry Horowitz at 6:12 with a bulldog Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham at 5:39 with his feet on the ropesPrime Time Wrestling – 11/19/87: Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid at 9:37 when Neidhart pinned Smith after Bret hit Smith with a double axehandle from the middle turnbuckle as Smith had a sleeper applied on Neidhart; Bobby Heenan did guest commentary for the bout, subbing for Pete DohertyPrime Time Wrestling – 11/19/87: Don Muraco pinned Sika at 3:06 with a Thesz Press Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Paul Orndorff at 7:11 after Heenan pushed Orndorff off the top, causing Orndorff to crotch himself on the top rope; during the pre-match introductions, Rude & Heenan demanded that Rude be announced as a quarter pound lighter; Rude then lost a pre-match posedown to Orndorff and attacked him before the match officially began; after the bout, Prichard interviewed Orndorff on the interview stage, with Orndorff demanding a rematch with Heenan barred from ringside; later in the show, Rude & Heenan accepted the challenge during a separate interviewPrime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: The Ultimate Warrior pinned Rip Oliver with a gorilla press slam at 4:58; Bobby Heenan did guest commentary for the bout, subbing for Doherty Jim Duggan pinned King Harley Race at 7:21 after Race attempted to use Duggan’s 2×4 as a weapon but instead hit the ropes, causing Race to strike himself in the head with the weapon WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders at 12:44 when Martel, the illegal man, pinned Tama with a sunset flip into the ring; after the bout, Prichard interviewed Jimmy Hart & the Hart Foundation on the interview stage, with Hart demanding a tag team title shot for his team Dec. 11 at the next Houston show; later in the show, Martel and Santana accepted the challenge in a separate interviewHouston Wrestling – 11/87: Koko B. Ware pinned Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) at 3:48 with a roll up; after the bout, Davis knocked out Ware with brass knuckles; Bobby Heenan did guest commentary for the bout, subbing for Doherty WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) via disqualification at 6:39 when the challenger punched referee Joey Marella after the referee stole Hart’s megaphone from Savage when he was about to use it as weapon; after the bout, Savage cleared both from the ring Rick Rude won a bunkhouse battle royalWWF @ Long Island, NY – Nassau Coliseum – November 6, 1987 (15,275; sell out) Frenchy Martin pinned SD Jones Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma Jake Roberts fought Dino Bravo to a draw Greg Valentine defeated Ivan Putski via submission with the figure-4 Brutus Beefcake defeated Hercules via submission with the sleeper; after the bout, Beefcake cut some of Hercules’ hair Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Demolition Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Killer Khan Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) (w/ Ted Dibiase) pinned the Junkyard Dog after Dibiase hit JYD with his crutch The One Man Gang defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via disqualificationWWF @ Cape Girardeau, MO – Show Me Center – November 7, 1987 (matinee) Sam Houston defeated Rip Oliver Bob Orton Jr. defeated Scott Casey The Ultimate Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Don Muraco defeated Sika via count-out Butch Reed defeated Superstar Billy Graham via count-out Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Jim Duggan fought King Harley Race to a double count-out Koko B. Ware defeated Danny Davis Paul Orndorff defeated Rick RudeWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – November 7, 1987 (matinee) (10,000)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Pete Doherty on commentary: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Brady Boone at 5:07 with a back suplex after Boone hit the cornerAll American Wrestling – 11/22/87: Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma when Zhukov pinned Powers with a running double axehandle at 11:24; prior to the bout, Nick Bockwinkel joined the commentary team Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) at 10:11 when Beefcake lifted his shoulder out of a back suplex into a bridge by Valentine; after the bout, Beefcake fought off Valentine, Johnny V, and an interfering Dino BravoPrime Time Wrestling – 12/14/87: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 7:24 with a dropkick and splash WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) via count-out at 7:26 when, after both men began fighting on the floor, Savage hit Honky with Hart’s megaphone to send him back inside the ring; after the match, Savage disposed of the referee, Hart, and the champion Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) fought Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes to a double disqualification at 7:21 when Patera shoved the referee and Demolition used Fuji’s cane as a weaponPrime Time Wrestling – 11/30/87: Hercules pinned Ivan Putski with a backbreaker at 5:45 Virgil (sub. for an injured Ted Dibiase) (w/ Ted Dibiase) pinned the Junkyard Dog at 2:53 after Dibiase hit him with one of his crutches WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders at 10:09 when Santana pinned Haku with a small package; there were two referees for the boutWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – November 7, 1987 (4,400) Scott Casey pinned Barry Horowitz Bob Orton Jr. fought Sam Houston to a draw Butch Reed pinned Superstar Billy Graham The Ultimate Warrior pinned Rip Oliver WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang Bret Hart, Jim Neidhart, & Danny Davis defeated Davey Boy Smith, the Dynamite Kid, & Koko B. Ware King Harley Race fought Jim Duggan to a double count-out Rick Rude (w/ Andre the Giant) pinned Paul Orndorff when Andre interfered; after the bout, Hulk Hogan came ringside and had a staredown with Andre to set up their bout on December 12thWWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – November 7, 1987 (6,800)Televised on the PRISM Network – featured Dick Graham & Craig DeGeorge on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 12/10/87: Dino Bravo (w/ Johnny V) pinned Brady Boone at 6:31 with a back suplex after Boone missed a dropkickPrime Time Wrestling – 11/26/87: Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jim Powers & Paul Roma at 12:43 when Zhukov pinned Powers with a diving headbutt Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 7:26 with a dropkick and splash after avoiding Khan’s green mistPrime Time Wrestling – 12/10/87: Hercules pinned the Junkyard Dog at 7:57 by using the ropes for leverage WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana fought the Islanders to a double disqualification at 9:41 after both of the two referees for the bout were knocked down; after the bout, Martel cleared the ring with a chair after Santana was double teamed Brutus Beefcake pinned Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase, who appeared at ringside on crutches) with a running kneelift at 2:57; after the bout, Dibiase attacked Beefcake with his crutch Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes at 8:02 when Smash pinned Haynes after Fuji hit him in the back of the head with his canePrime Time Wrestling – 12/14/87: Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) defeated Ivan Putski at 8:14 when the referee called for the bell at 7:37 as Putski was caught in Valentine’s figure-4, despite the fact Putski refused to submit WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) via count-out at 8:18 after Savage knocked the champion back inside the ring with Hart’s megaphone; after the bout, Savage cleared both Honky and Hart from the ringWWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – November 8, 1987 (matinee)The scheduled George Steele vs. Killer Khan match did not take place Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera via disqualification Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine Dino Bravo pinned Brady Boone Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Hercules Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) pinned Ivan Putski The Islanders defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana via count-out WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification after Savage used Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as a weaponWWF @ Calgary, Alberta – Saddledome – November 8, 1987 (4,500) The Ultimate Warrior pinned Barry Horowitz Sam Houston pinned Goldie Rogers (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Rick Rude (w/ Andre the Giant) pinned Paul Orndorff at around the 7-minute mark after Andre tripped Orndorff from the outside as he attempted to suplex Rude into the ring Don Muraco pinned Rip Oliver Jim Duggan fought King Harley Race to a double disqualification at around the 5-minute mark Bret Hart, Jim Neidhart, & Danny Davis defeated Davey Boy Smith, the Dynamite Kid, & Koko B. WareWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – November 8, 1987 Hercules pinned Brady Boone Virgil (sub. for Ted Dibiase) pinned Ivan Putski Greg Valentine pinned George Steele Brutus Beefcake pinned Dino Bravo Demolition fought Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes to a double count-out Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Killer Khan WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders in a Best 2 out of 3 falls match WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-outWWF @ Regina, Saskatchewan – Agridome – November 9, 1987 Sam Houston vs. ? (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) The Ultimate Warrior vs. Barry Horowitz Don Muraco vs. Rip Oliver Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Rick Rude (w/ Andre the Giant) vs. Paul Orndorff; including a prematch posedown Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Koko B. Ware, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Danny Davis, Bret Hart & Jim NeidhartWWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – November 10, 1987 Dan Spivey defeated Frenchy Martin Dino Bravo defeated B. Brian Blair Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Scott McGhee (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jake Roberts WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders in a steel cage matchWWF @ Vancouver, British Columbia – PNE Coliseum – November 10, 1987 (9,938) Sam Houston vs. ? (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) The Ultimate Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Don Muraco defeated Rip Oliver Hillbilly Jim vs. Danny Davis Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Ted Dibiase defeated George Steele WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Randy Savage, & Jim Duggan defeated King Kong Bundy, Rick Rude (sub. for Hercules), & King Harley Race (w/ Andre the Giant)WWF @ Seattle, WA – Coliseum – November 11, 1987 (16,000) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz at 12:50 with a bulldog Don Muraco pinned Rip Oliver at 8:30 with the tombstone The Ultimate Warrior defeated Jim Neidhart via disqualification at 7:20 when Neidhart refused to break a choke against the ropes Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau at 8:30 when Zhukov pinned Raymond Ted Dibiase pinned Hillbilly Jim at 3:30 with a clothesline Jim Duggan fought King Harley Race to a double disqualification at 6:30 when both men began fighting over Duggan’s 2×4Saturday Night’s Main Event #13 – shown 11/28/87 on NBC – featured opening comments from Randy Savage with Miss Elizabeth, King Kong Bundy & Bobby Heenan, and WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan regarding the upcoming matches; included Animotion’s “Obsession” as the opening theme song; featured footage of Danny Davis hitting George Steele from behind during the April Saturday Night’s Main Event; included Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with George Steele regarding his upcoming match against Davis, during which Steele was shown playing with Miss Elizabeth’s LJN doll; featured Jesse Ventura conducting a backstage interview with Davis regarding his upcoming match with Steele; included footage of WWF Tag Team Champion Bret Hart costing Savage the IC title at the previous SNME; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Bret, WWF Tag Team Champion Jim Neidhart, & Jimmy Hart regarding Bret’s upcoming match with Savage; included footage of Honky shoving Elizabeth to the mat during the previous SNME; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Savage & Elizabeth regarding Savage’s upcoming match with Bret; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Bundy & Heenan regarding Bundy’s upcoming match with Hogan, during which Heenan implied he had a huge surprise; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding the challenge of Bundy and Andre being in his corner; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hercules regarding his upcoming match with Bam Bam Bigelow and the fact Heenan wouldn’t be in his corner due to the injury he sustained from Hogan; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Bigelow & Humperdink regarding Bigelow’s upcoming match with Hercules; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Bundy & Andre in which Bundy said he wanted a rematch against Hogan, with Andre in Bundy’s corner; moments later, Ventura appeared and shook Bundy’s hand to congratulate him on his win; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his loss to Bundy, during which Hogan accepted Bundy’s challenge to a rematch; included Phil Collins’ “Take Me Home” as the closing theme music: George Steele defeated Danny Davis via disqualification at 3:49 when Davis kicked referee Joey Marella as Steele had Davis caught in the flying hammerlock; earlier in the match, Davis attacked Steele with a foreign object behind the referee’s back; after the contest, Steele ripped open the turnbuckle pad and chased Davis backstage with his own weapon Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Bret Hart (w/ Jimmy Hart & Jim Neidhart) at 12:03 by blocking a bodyslam into the ring and reversing it into an inside cradle; prior to the bout, Brian Bosworth of the Seattle Seahawks was shown taking a front row seat; WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man cut an insert promo before the match in which he said he told Bret to save some of Savage for him; after the contest, Savage cleared Bret, Neidhart, & Hart from ringside with Hart’s megaphone; moments later, the referee and Elizabeth helped an injured Savage backstage (Best of Saturday Night’s Main Event) King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out at around 13:45 when Heenan held the champion’s leg, preventing him from reentering the ring, after the two men began brawling on the floor; prior to the bout, Heenan introduced Andre the Giant who would also be in Bundy’s corner for the match; Marella called for the bell at 5:22 after Andre tripped Hogan, with Howard Finkel then announcing that if Andre didn’t leave ringside immediately then Hogan would be awarded the match; as Andre relunctantly left ringside, he shoved a cameraman to the ground; after the bout, Hogan three times lifted Heenan in the air by his neck and dropped him, resulting in Heenan having to wear a neckbrace for several weeks thereafter (Hulkamania 3) Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) (sub. for Jim Duggan) pinned Hercules at around the 7-minute mark with a gorilla press slam and slingshot splash into the ring; the match originally went to a double count-out at 3:07 but Bigelow grabbed the mic and challenged Hercules to continue the match until there was a winner, with Hercules agreeing (Saturday Night’s Main Event: The Greatest Hits)WWF @ West Palm Beach, FL – Auditorium – November 11, 1987 Brady Boone defeated Frenchy Martin WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs Greg Valentine defeated B. Brian Blair Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Scott McGhee (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Jake Roberts WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the IslandersWWF @ Oakland, CA – Coliseum – November 12, 1987 Ron Bass pinned Jerry Monti (sub. for Hillbilly Jim) Don Muraco pinned Rip Oliver Ivan Putski defeated Steve Lombardi Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau The Ultimate Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Jake Roberts pinned Hercules Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Hillbilly Jim (sub. for Billy Jack Haynes) Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy in a no DQ match Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil & Andre the Giant) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out when Andre the Giant interfered and hit a headbutt on the championWWF @ Pittsburg, KS – Pittsburg State University – November 12, 1987 Danny Spivey fought Sam Houston to a draw B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Jose Luis Rivera & Jose Estrada WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs Dino Bravo defeated the Junkyard Dog via disqualification Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy SavageWWF @ Las Vegas, NV – Thomas & Mack Center – November 13, 1987 (7,179) The Ultimate Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Don Muraco pinned Rip Oliver Ivan Putski defeated Steve Lombardi Ron Bass pinned Hillbilly Jim Jake Roberts pinned Hercules Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Demolition via disqualification when Mr. Fuji interfered Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy at around the 4-minute mark Ted Dibiase (w/ Andre the Giant) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out after the champion sustained a headbutt from Andre on the floorWWF @ Cedar Rapids, IA – Five Seasons Center – November 13, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) Jerry Allen vs. Danny Spivey Dino Bravo vs. the Junkyard Dog B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. Jose Estrada & Jose Luis Rivera WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Debbie Combs Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Randy SavageWWF @ Ft. Wayne, IN – Allen County War Memorial Coliseum – November 14, 1987 (matinee) Sam Houston vs. Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Debbie Combs Danny Spivey vs. Jerry Allen B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell vs. the Conquistadors WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Randy Savage Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo vs. Brutus Beefcake & George Steele The One Man Gang pinned the Junkyard Dog WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the IslandersWWF @ Salt Lake City, UT – Salt Palace – November 14, 1987 (matinee)Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes vs. Demolition Ted Dibiase vs. Koko B. Ware Jake Roberts vs. King Kong Bundy WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer KhanWWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – November 14, 1987 (9,000) SD Jones pinned Billy Anderson The Ultimate Warrior pinned Barry Horowitz Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Ron Bass pinned Hillbilly Jim Don Muraco pinned Hercules Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Demolition via disqualification Rip Oliver pinned Scott Casey Ivan Putski pinned Steve Lombardi Ted Dibiase pinned Jake Roberts Rick Rude pinned Koko B. Ware WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Killer KhanWWF @ Indianapolis, IN – Market Square Arena – November 14, 1987 Sam Houston pinned Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) at 11:34 with a bulldog WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Debbie Combs at 7:41 with a roll over Danny Spivey pinned Jerry Allen at 6:30 with a neckbreaker B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the Conquistadors at 9:58 when Blair got the pin with a clothesline off the top WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification at 9:38 when Savage accidentally hit the referee when Honky moved out of the way Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Brutus Beefcake & the Junkyard Dog at 11:39 when Valentine pinned Beefcake The One Man Gang pinned George Steele at 3:13 with a splash WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders at 11:47 in a steel cage elimination matchWWF @ South Bend, IN – Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center – November 15, 1987 (matinee) Sam Houston defeated Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs Dan Spivey defeated Jerry Allen B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Jose Estrada & Jose Luis Rivera WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo defeated Brutus Beefcake & George Steele The One Man Gang defeated the Junkyard Dog WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders in a steel cage matchWWF @ Reno, NV – Lawlor Events Center – November 15, 1987 (matinee) Rip Oliver defeated Scott Casey Ron Bass defeated Hillbilly Jim The Ultimate Warrior defeated Barry Horowitz Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Don Muraco defeated Hercules Ivan Putski defeated Steve Lombardi Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Demolition via disqualification Rick Rude defeated Koko B. Ware Ted Dibiase defeated Jake Roberts WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Killer KhanWWF @ Stockton, CA – Spanos Center – November 15, 1987 Jacques & Raymond Rougeau vs. Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes vs. Demolition Don Muraco vs. Killer Khan Rick Rude vs. Koko B. Ware Jake Roberts vs. Ted Dibiase Also included 5 other matchesWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – November 15, 1987 WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Debbie Combs WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Randy Savage Also included George Steele, Brutus Beefcake, & the Junkyard DogWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – November 16, 1987 (under 5,000) Ron Bass pinned Jerry Allen Danny Spivey pinned Ivan Putski Don Muraco pinned Hercules Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine defeated the Junkyard Dog & Brutus Beefcake when Bravo pinned JYD Billy Jack Haynes pinned Demolition Smash Demolition Ax pinned Ken Patera after Mr. Fuji interfered with his cane Jake Roberts defeated Killer Khan via disqualification when Mr. Fuji interfered with his cane Ted Dibiase pinned Ricky Steamboat when Virgil held Steamboat’s legs down from the outside Randy Savage (sub. for Jim Duggan) pinned King Harley Race Lou Thesz won a battle royal by last eliminating Pat O’Connor at 11:11; other participants included: Nick Bockwinkel, Bobo Brazil, Gino Brito, Edouard Carpentier, Al Costello, the Crusher, Dominic DeNucci, Tony Garea, Rene Goulet, Gene Kiniski, Killer Kowalski, Pedro Morales, Baron Mikel Scicluna, Arnold Skaaland, Ray Stevens, Chief Jay Strongbow, & Art Thomas; order of elimination: Strongbow eliminated by ?; ? by Thesz at 2:35; ? by Costello at 4:44; Garea by Costello via a catapult at 4:46; Costello by DeNucci at 6:13; Goulet by Carpentier via a headscissors over the top at 6:23; DeNucci by Bockwinkel at 6:55; Brazil by Stevens via a punch at 7:15; the Crusher by Stevens via a backdrop at 8:20; Kiniski eliminated; Kowalski by Thesz via a punch as Kowalski sat on the top rope at 8:38; Stevens by O’Connor via a throw at 9:14; Bockwinkel by O’Connor & Thesz at 9:27; O’Connor by Thesz via a backdrop; after the contest, Thesz and O’Connor embraced out of respect; Pat Patterson & Blackjack Lanza were originally scheduled for the battle royal Jake Roberts won a battle royal by last eliminating Ted Dibiase when Virgil accidentally pulled the top rope down; moments earlier, Dibiase paid Hercules and Dino Bravo $10,000 each to eliminate themselves; other participants included: Ron Bass, Jerry Allen, Danny Spivey, Ivan Putski, Don Muraco, Hercules, Dino Bravo, Greg Valentine, the Junkyard Dog, Brutus Beefcake, Billy Jack Haynes, Ken Patera, Demolition, Killer Khan, Randy Savage, King Harley Race, Ted Dibiase, and Ricky SteamboatWWF @ Moline, IL – Wharton Fieldhouse – November 16, 1987 (1,096 paid) Sam Houston pinned Barry Horowitz The Ultimate Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi The One Man Gang pinned George Steele WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Debbie Combs B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Jose Estrada & Jose Luis Rivera when Brunzell pinned Estrada Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau when Volkoff pinned Jacques Rick Rude pinned Koko B. Ware WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders when Martel pinned TamaWWF @ Des Moines, IA – Veterans Memorial Auditorium – November 17, 1987 (11,000; sell out)WWF Superstars taping: Earthquake Ferris defeated Reno Riggins Vinnie Valentino defeated Steve Lombardi Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated an unknown King Harley Race defeated Jim Duggan via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated the Islanders WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man GangPrime Time Wrestling – 1/4/88: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) at 3:56 with a splash after Bundy missed a splash of his own (Best of the WWF Vol. 15)11/28/87 – included Ted Dibiase announcing his intentions to buy the WWF World Heavyweight Title during an interview conducted by Craig DeGeorge; featured Jesse Ventura interviewing Greg Valentine backstage, prior to his match, in which Valentine announced that Jimmy Hart was once again his manager; included Slick’s “Jive Soul Bro” music video from the Piledriver Album; featured an ‘Update’ segment focusing on the upcoming Slammy Awards; included closing comments from Randy Savage about his match with Bret Hart during the upcoming Saturday Night’s Main Event: Brutus Beefcake fought Greg Valentine (w/ Jimmy Hart) to a double disqualification at 6:09 after referee Dave Hebner was knocked out as both men were fighting; after Hebner was knocked out but before the match was stopped, Valentine applied the figure-4 for several moments until Beefcake grabbed his cutting shears to clear Valentine and Hart from the ring; moments later, Beefcake was helped from the ring by several referees; later in the show, Beefcake was interviewed backstage and had an ice bag on his leg as a result of the attack (Hart’s first match managing Valentine after 2 years) (Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake) Koko B. Ware, Paul Roma, & Jim Powers defeated Terry Gibbs, Dusty Wolfe, & Barry Horowitz at 2:25 when Koko pinned Wolfe with the Ghostbuster King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Scott Casey at 1:08 with the cradle suplex Jake Roberts pinned Rick Renslow at 2:12 with the DDT Don Muraco pinned Brian Costello with the tombstone at the 56-second mark Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Lanny Poffo & Jerry Allen at 1:50 when Bret pinned Allen following the Hart Attack12/5/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Greg Valentine & Jimmy Hart; included the Andre the Giant “Stand Back” music video from the Piledriver Album; featured a video montage focusing on the career of Superstar Billy Graham; included footage from SNME of Hulk Hogan injuring Bobby Heenan’s neck: WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Conquistadors in a non-title match at 3:28 when Martel forced the submission with the Boston Crab Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Omar Atlas at 2:11 with a back elbow from the middle turnbuckle Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Dave Wagner at 1:22 with a slingshot splash into the ring Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Sivi Afi at 1:46 with a back suplex Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Steve Lombardi & Barry Horowitz at 3:50 when Dynamite pinned Horowitz with a back suplex off the top Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Outback Jack at 2:05 with the flying clothesline12/12/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Brutus Beefcake; included the Honkytonk Man music video from the Piledriver Album: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Jim Evans & Brady Boone at 2:08 when Ax pinned Evans with the Decapitation; after the bout, Demolition threw Boone out of the ring and hit the Decapitation on Evans a second time; after the bout, Boone attempted to make the save but was beaten down until Billy Jack Haynes and Ken Patera made the save Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Mike Richards via submission with the backbreaker at 1:43 Jim Duggan pinned Pete Sanchez at 2:13 with the running clothesline Greg Valentine (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Scott Casey via submission with the figure-4 at 3:35 The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned ? Rogers at 1:18 with the front suplex The Ultimate Warrior pinned Dusty Wolfe at 1:21 with the gorilla press slam The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jerry Allen & Jim Parks at 1:29 when Tama pinned Allen with the splash off the topWWF @ Omaha, NE – Civic Auditorium – November 18, 1987 (9,723)Wrestling Challenge taping: Rick Rude defeated Jake Roberts via count-out at around the 18-minute mark WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Debbie Combs at 5:08 Don Muraco defeated Butch Reed (w/ Slick) via count-out at 10:14 after Slick tried to hit Muraco with his cane but the attempt backfired Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera Ted Dibiase (w/ Andre the Giant) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out at around the 14-minute mark when Andre interfered and headbutted the champion on the floor11/29/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Butch Reed & Slick regarding the health of Superstar Billy Graham; included the Honkytonk Man music video from the Piledriver Album: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated the Conquistadors at 5:06 when Smith scored the pin with the running powerslam Ted DiBiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Sonny Rogers at 1:17 with a reverse elbow from the middle turnbuckle Jim Duggan pinned Barry Horowitz at 2:05 with the running clothesline Killer Khan (w/ Mr. Fuji) pinned Mike Richards at 2:13 with the flying kneedrop after spraying green mist into his opponent’s eyes The Ultimate Warrior pinned Brian Costello at 1:56 with the press slam Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes defeated Dave Wagner & Rick Renslow at 1:47 when Wagner submitted to Haynes’ full nelson12/6/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Danny Davis, Jimmy Hart, and Sam Houston, where Davis and Houston ended up in a pull-apart brawl; included the Demolition music video from the Piledriver Album; featured footage from SNME in which Hulk Hogan injured Bobby Heenan’s neck: Rick Rude defeated Omar Atlas via submission at 1:47 Jake Roberts pinned Barry Horowitz after 56 seconds with the DDT King Harley Race pinned Jerry Allen at 1:08 with a cradle suplex Don Muraco pinned Pete Sanchez at 1:28 with the tombstone Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Scott Casey & Sivi Afi at 3:18 following the Hart Attack on Afi12/13/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ted Dibiase & Virgil regarding Dibiase’s plans to buy the WWF World Title: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Brian Costello at 2:21 with the slingshot suplex into the ring Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) defeated Jim Evans & Brady Boone at 2:43 when Zhukov pinned Evans Danny Davis (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Sam Houston via count-out at 4:03 after Davis hit Houston with Hart’s megaphone as Houston was distracted by Hart WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Dusty Wolfe & Steve Lombardi in a non-title match at 3:30 when Wolfe submitted to Martel’s Boston crab Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Lanny Poffo at 2:01 with the side suplex Koko B. Ware & the Junkyard Dog defeated Barry Horowitz & Terry Gibbs at 1:59 when Koko pinned Horowitz with the GhostbusterWWF @ Scranton, PA – CYC – November 19, 1987 Jim Powers & Paul Roma vs. Jose Luis Rivera & Jose Estrada WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Rockin Robin Koko B. Ware vs. Ron Bass The Junkyard Dog vs. King Kong Bundy George Steele vs. Killer Khan Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion The Honkytonk ManWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – November 20, 1987 Koko B. Ware defeated Ron Bass WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Rockin Robin Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Conquistadors Killer Khan defeated George Steele via disqualification WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-out Jim Duggan defeated King Harley Race The One Man Gang defeated the Junkyard Dog Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Baltimore, MD – Arena – November 21, 1987 (matinee) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. the One Man Gang Also included Randy Savage, WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, Koko B. Ware, Jim Duggan, and King Kong BundyWWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – November 21, 1987 (5,594) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Rockin Robin Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Conquistadors Koko B. Ware pinned Ron Bass George Steele defeated Frankie Lane (sub. for Killer Khan) via submission with the flying hammerlock The Junkyard Dog pinned King Kong Bundy King Harley Race pinned Jim Duggan Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid after using Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as a weapon WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – November 22, 1987 (17,500) (matinee) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Rockin Robin Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Conquistadors Ron Bass defeated Koko B. Ware King Harley Race defeated Jim Duggan via disqualification King Kong Bundy fought the Junkyard Dog to a double disqualification Randy Savage, Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out after Virgil and King Kong Bundy interferedWWF @ Hartford, CT – Civic Center – November 22, 1987 (8,000) Frenchy Martin pinned Ivan Putski Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Conquistadors Koko B. Ware defeated Ron Bass Randy Savage, Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart when Savage pinned Neidhart King Harley Race defeated Jim Duggan via disqualification King Kong Bundy pinned the Junkyard Dog with an elbow drop WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualification; this was an unadvertised match put on to kill time before Hogan arrived to the arena Ted Dibiase defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out after Virgil rammed the champion into the ring postWWF @ Worcester, MA – Centrum – November 23, 1987 Ron Bass pinned Ivan Putski Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Paul Roma & Jim Powers The Junkyard Dog defeated King Kong Bundy via disqualification Ted Dibiase pinned Koko B. Ware WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Jim Duggan pinned King Harley Race Randy Savage, Davey Boy Smith, & the Dynamite Kid defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart when Savage pinned NeidhartWWF @ Flint, MI – IMA Sports Arena – November 24, 1987 Included Don MuracoWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – November 24, 1987 (17,000)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon, Lord Alfred Hayes, & Nick Bockwinkel on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 12/10/87: The Ultimate Warrior pinned Frenchy Martin (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) following a series of clotheslines at 4:38 (Warrior’s MSG debut)Prime Time Wrestling – 12/14/87: WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels at 13:59 when Kai scored the pin following a powerbomb from Martin; after the bout, the challengers cleared the Glamour Girls and Hart from the ring (The Women of the WWF) Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Paul Orndorff (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) at 8:44 with a roll up and using the tights for leverage after Heenan distracted Orndorff from ringside; after the bout, Orndorff attacked Rude and cleared him from the ring (Orndorff’s last MSG appearance)Prime Time Wrestling – 12/14/87: B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Boris Zhukov & Nikolai Volkoff (w/ Slick) at 20:26 when Blair, under a mask, pinned Zhukov with a flying bodypress WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) via count-out at 13:24 after Savage hit the champion with Hart’s megaphone, knocking him back inside the ring; after the bout, Savage cleared both men from ringside, even hitting Honky in the back with his own guitar as he made his way back to the lockerroomPrime Time Wrestling – 12/14/87: Jake Roberts pinned Danny Davis with the DDT at 7:22; after the bout, Jake placed Damien on top of Davis and left ringside; moments later, Jimmy Hart came out and helped carry Davis backstage along with several officials WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at 18:18 after Bret hit Martel with Jimmy Hart’s megaphone as Martel attempted the Boston Crab on Neidhart; after the bout, Santana used one of the title belts to clear the opposition from the ring Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Ivan Putski with a powerslam at the 3-minute mark; prior to the bout, Dibiase cut an in-ring promo, saying he was in negotiations to buy MSG but opted not to after realizing he would also get the New York Knicks and Rangers; he then said both teams were useless and all the MSG fans were losers (Dibiase’s return to MSG after nearly 8 years)Prime Time Wrestling – 5/23/88: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned King Kong Bundy (w/ Bobby Heenan) with a splash at 3:22 after Bundy missed a splash of his ownWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – November 25, 1987 Included Jim Duggan and DemolitionWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – November 25, 1987 (10,800)The scheduled Ultimate Warrior vs. Frenchy Martin match was cancelled B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Rick Rude defeated Paul Orndorff via count-out Iron Mike Sharpe defeated Ivan Putski Ted Dibiase defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out after Andre the Giant interfered and connected with a headbutt on Hogan on the floor WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidSurvivor Series 87 – Richfield, OH – Coliseum – November 26, 1987 (21,000; sell out)Thanksgiving NightPay-per-view bouts – featured Howard Finkel introducing Gorilla Monsoon & Jesse Ventura, who provided commentary for the show; included Craig DeGeorge conducting a backstage interview with WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, King Harley Race, Ron Bass, Hercules, Danny Davis, Bobby Heenan, & Jimmy Hart regarding their upcoming match; during the interview, footage was shown of Honky smashing his guitar over Randy Savage’s head and then shoving Miss Elizabeth during Saturday Night’s Main Event; featured Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Savage, Elizabeth, Ricky Steamboat, Jim Duggan, Brutus Beefcake, & Jake Roberts regarding their upcoming match; during the segment, footage was shown of Race attacking Duggan with his own 2×4; included DeGeorge conducting a backstage interview with Andre the Giant, King Kong Bundy, the One Man Gang, Rick Rude, Butch Reed, Slick, & Heenan regarding their match later in the show; during the segment, footage was shown of Andre falling on WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan at WrestleMania III for a near fall; featured DeGeorge conducting a backstage interview with Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart, Demolition, the Islanders, Greg Valentine & Dino Bravo, Heenan, & Mr. Fuji; moments later, Jimmy Hart stepped in after being assaulted at the end of the women’s match; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid, B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Jim Powers & Paul Roma regarding their upcoming match; featured a vignette showing how Ted Dibiase spends his Thanksgiving, with Dibiase riding in his limo and cutting a promo on all the wrestlers that were spending the day beating each other up while he was spending the day relaxing; Dibiase then introduced footage of him offering kids money to do tasks for him but then failing to get the job done; Dibiase & Virgil were then shown in his home where he introduced footage of him forcing a woman to get down on all fours and bark like a dog for $300; Dibiase was then shown at his dining room table and showed footage of a kid kissing his bare feet after a recent match and then paying off a pool operator to kick all the kids out of a public pool so he could have it to himself; Dibiase was then shown driving a classic car and bragging about his purchases; included DeGeorge conducting a podium interview with Honky & Hart regarding Honky’s match earlier in the show, during which Honky bragged about not being defeated even when the odds were 3-on-1; Honky then challenged WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan and claimed Savage was nothing; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan, Bam Bam Bigelow, Paul Orndorff, Don Muraco, Ken Patera, & Sir Oliver Humperdink regarding their upcoming match: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth), Jim Duggan, Jake Roberts, Ricky Steamboat, & Brutus Beefcake defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart), King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan), Danny Davis, Hercules, & Ron Bass in an elimination match at 23:38; Duggan fought Race to a double count-out at 4:33 when both began brawling on the floor; after the decision, both men were pulled apart by their team members; Beefcake pinned Bass with a high knee at 6:58 after Savage made a blind tag; Honky pinned Beefcake with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll at 10:47 after Davis hit Beefcake from behind as Beefcake ran the ropes; Roberts pinned Davis with the short clothesline and the DDT at 15:06; Savage pinned Hercules with the flying elbowsmash after a chop from Steamboat at 20:56; Honky was counted-out when he left ringside after sustaining an atomic drop from Savage which knocked him to the floor The Fabulous Moolah, Velvet McIntyre, Rockin Robin, & the Jumping Bomb Angels defeated WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri, WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Lelani Kai & Judy Martin (w/ Jimmy Hart), Dawn Marie, and Donna Christianello in an elimination match at 20:17; McIntyre pinned Christianello with a victory roll at 1:57; Robin pinned Dawn Marie with a crossbody at 4:12; Sherri pinned Robin with a bodyslam and suplex at 6:55; Martin pinned Moolah at 10:55 after a double clothesline by she and Kai; McIntyre pinned Sherri at 14:56 with a victory roll; Kai pinned McIntyre at 17:24 by blocking a victory roll, dropping McIntyre throat-first over the top rope, and dropping backwards; Kai was pinned at 18:38 following a crossbody off the top after missing a splash off the top; Martin was pinned following a clothesline off the top after the other Bomb Angel dropkicked Hart off the apron WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid, Jacques & Raymond Rougeau, Jim Powers & Paul Roma, and B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart), the Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan), Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick), Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji), and Dino Bravo & Greg Valentine (w/ Johnny V) in an elimination match at 37:14; prior to the bout, some of the lighting in the arena briefly went out; Santana pinned Zhukoff with the flying forearm at 1:45; Demoliltion Ax pinned Jacques at 5:49 after Jacques missed a reverse crossbody off the top; Demolition was disqualified at 9:11 after Smash shoved the referee to the mat; Neidhart pinned Santana at 12:04 after Bret hit Santana with a double axe handle to prevent Neidhart from being pinned following the flying forearm; Haku pinned Dynamite at 19:57 with a kick to the face after Dynamite hurt himself delivering a headbutt off the middle turnbuckle; Roma pinned Valentine at 23:39 with a sunset flip off the top as Valentine attempted to put the figure-4 on Powers; Brunzell pinned Bret at 30:27 after Tama dropkicked Hart onto Brunzell, with Brunzell rolling on top for the win; Blair, the illegal man, pinned Tama with a sunset flip into the ring after putting on one of the Killer Bees’ masks as Tama fought with Brunzell in the ring (Johnny V’s last appearance with Valentine & Bravo) Andre the Giant (w/ Bobby Heenan), Rick Rude, King Kong Bundy, Butch Reed (w/ Slick), & the One Man Gang defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan, Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink), Paul Orndorff, Ken Patera, & Don Muraco in an elimination match at 24:07; prior to the bout, Hogan came out carrying the American flag; Hogan pinned Reed at 3:06 with the legdrop after a double clothesline from Hogan and Orndorff; the Gang pinned Patera at 8:45 after both men hit a clothesline, with OMG falling on top; Rude pinned Orndorff at 10:25 with a roll up and using the tights for leverage after Bundy attacked Orndorff from behind; Muraco pinned Rude with a powerslam at 11:20 after Rude jumped over Hogan; OMG pinned Muraco at 12:56 with a splash after a headbutt from Andre; Hogan was counted-out at 18:05 when Bundy and OMG prevented him from returning to the ring; Bigelow pinned Bundy at 20:32 with a slingshot splash into the ring after Bundy missed a splash in the corner; Bigelow pinned OMG at 22:52 after OMG missed a splash off the top; Andre pinned Bigelow with a butterfly suplex after Bigelow missed a splash in the corner; after the match, Hogan returned to the ring and blasted Andre in the head with the world title belt, sending him to the floor; moments later, Gene Okerlund conducted a backstage interview with Andre & Heenan in which they discussed a rematch against Hogan and bragged about the win (Andre’s in-ring return after a 7-month absence) (Survivor Series 06)WWF @ Nashville, TN – Municipal Auditorium – November 27, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Barry Horowitz The Ultimate Warrior vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jake Roberts vs. Ted Dibiase Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Demolition vs. Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Hull, Quebec – Robert Guertin Arena – November 27, 1987 Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov vs. Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Don Muraco vs. Butch Reed WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders Bam Bam Bigelow vs. the One Man Gang Dino Bravo vs. Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ Huntsville, AL – Von Braun Civic Center – November 28, 1987 (matinee) Sam Houston vs. Barry Horowitz The Ultimate Warrior vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jake Roberts vs. Ted Dibiase Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Demolition vs. Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude; including a prematch posedown Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Birmingham, AL – Jefferson Civic Center – November 28, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Barry Horowitz The Ultimate Warrior vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jake Roberts vs. Ted Dibiase Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Demolition vs. Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude; including a prematch posedown Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk ManWWF @ Utica, NY – Memorial Auditorium – November 28, 1987CancelledWWF @ Pittsburg, KS – Pittsburg State University – November 28, 1987 (2,800)WWF @ Montreal, Quebec – Forum – November 28, 1987 Lanny Poffo defeated Steve Lombardi Greg Valentine defeated Outback Jack Danny Spivey defeated Jerry Allen Don Muraco defeated Butch Reed Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy (sub. for Killer Khan) Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov WWF Tag Team Champion Tito Santana defeated Tama; the bout was originally scheduled as Santana & Rick Martel vs. the Islanders Dino Bravo defeated Brutus Beefcake WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated the One Man GangWWF @ Peoria, IL – Civic Center – November 29, 1987CanceledWWF @ Pontiac, MI – Silverdome – November 29, 1987 (matinee) Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated Boris Zhukov & Nikolai Volkoff when Jacques pinned Zhukov Don Muraco pinned Killer Khan Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Butch Reed Jake Roberts fought Ted Dibiase to a double count-out WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders when Martel pinned Tama WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-outWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – November 29, 1987 (matinee) Brutus Beefcake vs. Dino Bravo King Harley Race vs. Jim Duggan Demolition vs. Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude; including a prematch posedown WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan vs. the One Man GangWWF @ Winnipeg, Manitoba – Arena – November 29, 1987 (4,000) Outback Jack pinned Steve Lombardi Danny Spivey pinned Lanny Poffo Don Muraco pinned Butch Reed Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau Ted Dibiase pinned Jake Roberts WWF Tag Team Champion Tito Santana pinned Haku; the match was originally scheduled as Santana & Martel vs. the Islanders Bam Bam Bigelow pinned Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) after 90 seconds WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – November 29, 1987 Sam Houston defeated Barry Horowitz The Ultimate Warrior defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Jim Duggan defeated King Harley Race Brutus Beefcake defeated Dino Bravo Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes The One Man Gang defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-outWWF @ San Diego, CA – Sports Arena – November 30, 1987 SD Jones defeated Steve Lombardi George Steele fought Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) to a double count-out The Islanders defeated the Junkyard Dog & Koko B. Ware Ted Dibiase defeated Jake Roberts Bam Bam Bigelow & Don Muraco defeated the One Man Gang & Butch Reed Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude Hercules defeated Brutus BeefcakeWWF @ Phoenix, AZ – Veterans Memorial Coliseum – December 1, 1987 The Islanders vs. the Junkyard Dog & Koko B. Ware Don Muraco vs. Butch Reed Jake Roberts vs. Killer Khan Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera Brutus Beefcake vs. Ted Dibiase Bam Bam Bigelow vs. the One Man Gang Rick Rude defeated Paul Orndorff in a lumberjack matchWWF @ Tucson, AZ – Community Center – December 2, 1987 SD Jones vs. Steve Lombardi The Islanders vs. the Junkyard Dog & Koko B. Ware George Steele vs. Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) Don Muraco vs. Butch Reed Brutus Beefcake vs. Hercules Demolition vs. Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera Jake Roberts vs. Ted Dibiase Bam Bam Bigelow vs. the One Man Gang Rick Rude vs. Paul Orndorff; including a prematch posedownWWF @ Odessa, TX – Ector County Coliseum – December 3, 1987 SD Jones defeated Steve Lombardi George Steele fought Sika to a double count-out Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera Bam Bam Bigelow defeated the One Man Gang Ted Dibiase defeated Jake Roberts Brutus Beefake defeated Hercules The Islanders defeated the Junkyard Dog & Koko B. WareWWF @ Albuquerque, NM – Tingley Coliseum – December 4, 1987 (3,200) SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated George Steele & Koko B. Ware Don Muraco pinned Butch Reed Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera Ted Dibiase pinned Brutus Beefcake Bam Bam Bigelow pinned the One Man Gang Rick Rude defeated Paul Orndorff; included a prematch posedownWWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – December 4, 1987 (4,400) The Ultimate Warrior defeated Iron Mike Sharpe at 5:53 Hercules defeated Outback Jack at 11:39 Dino Bravo pinned Hillbilly Jim at 8:57 The Junkyard Dog pinned Bill Dixon at 1:09 WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-out at 10:43 Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov at 12:19 Jake Roberts defeated Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) at 5:56 Jim Duggan defeated King Harley Race via count-out at 5:25 WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel defeated the Islanders at 13:22WWF @ Los Angeles, CA – Sports Arena – December 5, 1987 (matinee) SD Jones defeated Steve Lombardi Greg Valentine defeated Koko B. Ware Ted Dibiase defeated Ricky Steamboat via count-out Jim Duggan defeated King Harley Race Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Don Muraco defeated Butch Reed Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Brutus Beefcake & George Steele WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man fought Randy Savage to a double disqualificationWWF @ San Francisco, CA – Cow Palace – December 5, 1987 (7,500) SD Jones pinned Steve Lombardi Greg Valentine defeated Koko B. Ware via submission with the figure-4 Don Muraco fought Butch Reed to a double disqualification Ted Dibiase pinned Ricky Steamboat Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart defeated Brutus Beefcake & George Steele after Neidhart hit Steele with a chair Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes after Mr. Fuji interfered and hit Haynes with his cane Jim Duggan pinned King Harley Race Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out when Savage pulled the wig off of Peggy Sue and both she and the champion left ringside; during the bout, Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cageWWF @ Erie, PA – Civic Center – December 5, 1987 (3,500) (matinee) Outback Jack defeated Barry Horowitz at 7:11 The Ultimate Warrior defeated Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) at 7:05 Dino Bravo defeated Hillbilly Jim at 8:48 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated Hercules (w/ Andre the Giant) at 11:58 Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov at 12:21 The Junkyard Dog defeated King Kong Bundy via forfeit Jake Roberts defeated Sika at 6:30 WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders at 16:56WWF @ Philadelphia, PA – Spectrum – December 5, 1987 (10,105)Televised on the PRISM Network – included Dick Graham & Craig DeGeorge on commentary: Outback Jack pinned Barry Horowitz at 8:08 with a bulldog The Ultimate Warrior pinned Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) at 7:49 with a gorilla press slam Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) at 13:06 when Smith pinned Zhukov after Dynamite pinned Zhukov from the outside as he attemptd to slam Smith into the ringPrime Time Wrestling – 1/4/88: Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Hillbilly Jim at 9:27 with a running knee to the back as Jim was distracted by Frenchy on the apron Jake Roberts pinned Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) at 3:39 with a roll up after Sika missed a charge in the corner; after the bout, Sika attacked Jake but left the ring as Roberts went to open his snake bag WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang (w/ Slick) at 11:13 with a powerslam and the legdrop; after the bout, Hogan threw Slick over to the top to the floor after punching him out; moments later, Andre the Giant came out and stood in the aisleway (Hulk Hogan: The Unreleased Archives) WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders at 13:29 when Martel pinned Tama with a sunset flip Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog via count-out at 5:53 when Hercules got back in the ring after both men began brawling on the floor; the ring announcer mistakenly announced the result as a DQ win for Hercules Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned King Kong Bundy (w/ Andre the Giant) at 4:48 with a diving headbutt after Bundy became distracted by WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan at ringside; Hogan came out after Andre interfered in the match; Bigelow used the “Stand Back” theme from Piledriver as his music for the boutWWF @ Portland, ME – Cumberland County Civic Center – December 6, 1987 (matinee) Dino Bravo vs. Hillbilly Jim Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong Bundy Jake Roberts vs. Sika Hercules vs. the Junkyard Dog WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders Also included the Ultimate Warrior and Outback JackWWF @ Fresno, CA – Selland Arena – December 6, 1987 (matinee) Demolition vs. Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Koko B. Ware vs. Greg Valentine Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race Brutus Beefcake & George Steele vs. Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart Ricky Steamboat vs. Ted Dibiase Randy Savage vs. WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (Jimmy Hart suspended above the ring in a cage for the bout)WWF @ Springfield, MA – Civic Center – December 6, 1987 (1,700) Outback Jack pinned Barry Horowitz The Ultimate Warrior pinned Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) Dino Bravo pinned Hillbilly Jim Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov via pinfall Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy Jake Roberts pinned Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) The Junkyard Dog defeated Hercules via disqualification WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated the Islanders via pinfall in a lumberjack matchWWF @ Sacramento, CA – Arco Arena – December 6, 1987 Steve Lombardi defeated ? Greg Valentine defeated Koko B. Ware Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes Butch Reed defeated Don Muraco Ted Dibiase defeated George Steele Jim Duggan defeated King Harley Race Randy Savage, Ricky Steamboat, & Brutus Beefcake defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man, Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart when Savage pinned NeidhartWWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – December 7, 1987 (11,000) Dino Bravo pinned Hillbilly Jim The Islanders defeated Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid Rick Rude pinned the Junkyard Dog; after the bout, JYD challenged Rude to an immedate rematch The Junkyard Dog defeated Rick Rude King Harley Race pinned Jim Duggan after hitting him with a foreign object The Ultimate Warrior pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification in a lumberjack match after the Islanders interferedSaturday Night’s Main Event #14 – shown 1/2/88 on NBC – featured opening comments from Jake Roberts, Greg Valentine & Jimmy Hart, WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel, Slick, Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov, Bobby Heenan, Andre the Giant, & King Kong Bundy, and WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan regarding the upcoming matches; included Animotion’s “Obsession” as the opening theme song; featured Vince McMahon & Jesse Ventura on commentary; included Gene Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his upcoming title defense against Bundy, who would have Andre in his corner; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Slick, Volkoff & Zhukov regarding their upcoming tag team title match, during which Slick claimed he met with Mikhail Gorbachev the previous month in Washington DC; included footage of Santana & Martel winning the tag team titles from Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart in Syracuse, NY; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Santana & Martel regarding their title defense; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Mr. Fuji & Sika, during which the two showed a hoagie roll and container of mustard, with Fuji claiming Sika would have Damien for dinner; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Roberts regarding his upcoming match; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Bundy, Andre, & Heenan in which Heenan said he wouldn’t be at ringside for Bundy’s match against Hogan and Andre would be his replacement; featured footage of Hogan attacking Heenan at the previous Saturday Night’s Main Event, which was credited with putting Heenan in a neckbrace; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Hogan regarding his upcoming title defense; featured Ventura conducting a backstage interview with Valentine & Hart regarding the upcoming match with Koko B. Ware; included Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Koko, with Frankie, with Koko saying he had received tips on Valentine from Brutus Beefcake; featured Okerlund conducting a backstage interview with Andre & Heenan regarding Andre’s attack on Hogan and Andre’s quest for the WWF World Title; included Okerlund and Ventura backstage commenting on Andre’s attack and Hogan’s injuries; featured Phil Collins’ “Take Me Home” as the closing theme music: WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) at 7:55 in a Best 2 out of 3 falls match, 2-0; fall #1: Zhukov submitted to Martel’s Boston Crab at 4:23; fall #2: Santana pinned Zhukov at 3:32 after Volkoff accidentally hit his partner with Slick’s cane behind the referee’s back, with Martel then knocking Volkoff out of the ring with a dropkick Jake Roberts pinned Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) (w/ Mr. Fuji) at 3:35 with a roll up after Roberts avoided a charge in the corner; after the bout, Roberts knocked Sika to the floor and dropped Fuji with the DDT and covered him with Damien until Sika pulled his manager out of the ring WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned King Kong Bundy (w/ Andre the Giant) at 12:09 with the legdrop after Bundy hit the corner; the referee was helped backstage mid-way through the contest after Bundy hit him with the Avalanche in the corner, meaning to hit Hogan, with Dave Hebner then taking over the remainder of the contest; late in the contest, Hogan sustained two Avalanches and a splash but kicked out at 2; after the bout, Andre appeared as though he was going to fight Hogan but then left the ring, only to return moments later, attack Hogan from behind, and choke him until Hogan passed out; moments later, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid attempted to make the save but were thrown to the floor by Andre before Andre went back to attacking Hogan; Jake Roberts, the Junkyard Dog, WWF Tag Team Champions Tito Santana & Rick Martel then appeared and tried to pull Andre away, with Jim Duggan then coming out and hitting Andre over the back, distracting him long enough for the other men to pull Hogan to safety; as Hogan was helped backstage, Andre held the title belt in the air inside the ring (Best of Saturday Night’s Main Event) Greg Valentine (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Koko B. Ware via submission with the figure-4 at around the 7:30 mark; Brutus Beefcake appeared ringside mid-way through the match but was sent backstage by referee Joey Marella; after the match, Valentine put Koko back in the hold until Beefcake came out to make the save, scaring Valentine backstage with his scissors and cutting some hair from Hart’s headWWF @ Jacksonville, FL – Coliseum – December 8, 1987 The Ultimate Warrior vs. ? (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) Dino Bravo vs. Koko B. Ware The Junkyard Dog vs. Rick Rude Sam Houston vs. Danny Davis Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana vs. the Islanders WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man vs. Randy SavageWWF @ Tampa, FL – SunDome – December 9, 1987WWF Superstars taping: Don Muraco defeated Dusty Wolfe; the bout was redone later in the evening Paul Orndorff vs. Rick Rude WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-out WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang12/19/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan in which he rejected Ted Dibiase’s offer to purchase the WWF World Heavyweight Title: Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Steve Lombardi with the flying elbow drop at 2:24 Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Rick Hunter at 1:48 with a back elbow off the middle turnbuckle Don Muraco pinned Dusty Wolfe with the tombstone at 1:18 Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Outback Jack & Omar Atlas at 2:58 when Bret pinned Atlas following the Hart Attack Jake Roberts pinned Brian Costello with the DDT at 2:22 Ron Bass pinned Tio Samoa with the Pedigree at 1:58 Koko B. Ware pinned Raul Mato with the Ghostbuster at 2:0112/26/87 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ted Dibiase & Virgil regarding Hulk Hogan’s refusal to sell the WWF World Title: Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Van Van Horne with the slingshot splash into the ring at 2:23 The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Tom Horn with the front suplex at 1:47 Brutus Beefcake defeated Rick Gantner via submission with the sleeper at 2:16 WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart & Peggy Sue) pinned Brady Boone at 1:35 with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll; prior to the bout, the champion introduced Peggy Sue (aka WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid fought the Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) to a no contest when the Islanders stole Matilda the bulldog and ran backstage with her after attacking the British Bulldogs from behind when they became distracted by Heenan Rick Rude defeated Jerry Allen via submission with the backbreaker at the 49 second mark The Ultimate Warrior pinned Rick Renslow with the gorilla press slam / splash combo at 1:431/9/88 – included Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Ted Dibiase & Virgil in which Dibiase had Andre the Giant & Bobby Heenan come out, then announced that he had purchased Andre’s contract from Heenan and that Andre would deliver the world title to Dibiase after taking it from Hulk Hogan; featured highlights of the Hogan / Bundy match and aftermath from SNME: The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Jerry Gray & Lanny Poffo at 3:20 when Haku pinned Gray with a side kick; after the bout, WWF President Jack Tunney – from the interview stage – announced that the Islanders would be indefinately suspended until Matilda the bulldog was found Jake Roberts pinned Wellington Wilkins at 1:50 with the DDT Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Scott Casey at 2:21 with a back suplex Sam Houston pinned Terry Gibbs with a bulldog at 2:53 Butch Reed (w/ Slick) pinned Sivi Afi with the flying clothesline at 2:23 Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Jim Evans & Mike Richards at 3:09 when Ax pinned Evans following the DecapitationWWF @ Ft. Myers, FL – Lee Civic Center – December 10, 1987Wrestling Challenge taping: Bam Bam Bigelow defeated the One Man GangWrestling Spotlight – 12/19/87: Jake Roberts defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) via disqualification at 5:25 when the champion used Hart’s megaphone as a weapon; after the bout, Roberts attempted to put Damien on Honky after tying him in the ring ropes but after Honky was freed Roberts placed the snake on Hart insteadPrime Time Wrestling – 12/21/87: Jim Duggan pinned Rex King at 2:31 with the running clotheslinePrime Time Wrestling – 12/21/87: King Harley Race (w/ Bobby Heenan) pinned Jim Evans at the 59-second mark with the cradle suplexPrime Time Wrestling – 12/21/87: The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana via count-out at 10:50 when Tama rolled back in the ring after all four men began brawling on the floorAll American Wrestling – 12/27/87: Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera defeated Iron Mike Sharpe & Van Van Horne at 4:28 when Horne submitted to Haynes’ full nelson; after the bout, Demolition came out and attacked Haynes & Patera until the babyfaces eventually cleared the ring by using Mr. Fuji’s cane12/20/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Jim Duggan: Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated Rick Renslow & Dave Wagner at 3:18 when Roma pinned Renslow with a sunset flip off the top Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated Outback Jack via submission at 1:32 Brutus Beefcake defeated Barry Horowitz via submission at 1:36 with the sleeper The One Man Gang & Butch Reed (w/ Slick) defeated Lanny Poffo & SD Jones at 3:17 when Gang pinned Jones with the front suplex Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) defeated Mike Richards & Mr. Harte at 1:17 when Volkoff pinned Richards with a backbreaker The Ultimate Warrior pinned Rex King at 1:16 with the press slam WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart) pinned Scott Casey at 2:10 in a non-title match with the Shake, Rattle, & Roll12/27/87 – featured Craig DeGeorge conducting an interview with Demolition & Mr. Fuji; included the Bulldogs / Islanders match from Superstars, shown in full: WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Rick Gantner & Terry Gibbs at 3:06 when Gantner submitted to Martel’s Boston crab Ted DiBiase (w/ Virgil) pinned Sivi Afi at 2:17 with a reverse elbow from the middle turnbuckle Jake Roberts pinned Steve Lombardi at 2:15 with the DDT Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Jerry Allen at 1:30 with the side suplex Don Muraco pinned Frank DeFalco at 1:31 after the tombstone Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) pinned Jerry Gray at 2:01 with the flying elbow drop1/10/88 – included highlights of the Hogan / Bundy match from SNME: Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Steve Lombardi & Terry Gibbs at 3:11 when Dynamite pinned Lombardi Ron Bass pinned Omar Atlas at 2:06 Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Oliver Humperdink) pinned Dusty Wolfe at 2:32 with the slingshot suplex into the ring Danny Davis, Bret Hart, & Jim Neidhart (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Brady Boone, Wellington Wilkins, & Jack Towers at 2:00 following the Hart Attack Sam Houston pinned Jerry Gray at 2:11 with a bulldog Greg Valentine (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Pete Sanchez via submission with the figure-4 at 2:01 Koko B. Ware pinned Rick Renslow at 1:12 with the GhostbusterDark match after the taping: Ted Dibiase defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via disqualificationWWF @ Houston, TX – Sam Houston Coliseum – December 11, 1987 (2,000+)Featured Bruce Prichard, Mike McGuirk, & Pete Doherty on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 12/31/87: Sam Houston pinned Dusty Wolfe at 8:36 with a bulldogAll American Wrestling – 12/20/87: Hercules pinned the Junkyard Dog at 8:15 with his feet on the ropesPrime Time Wrestling – 1/12/88: Demolition (w/ Mr. Fuji) defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Brady Boone (sub. for an injured Ken Patera) (w/ Ken Patera) at 10:22 when Smash pinned Boone after dropping him throat-first across the top rope Rick Rude pinned Paul Orndorff at 8:59 using the ropes for leverage after blocking Orndorff’s sunset flip attempt from the apron The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) pinned Brutus Beefcake at 9:17 with an elbow drop after Beefcake was distracted by Slick on the apron; after the bout, Gang was about to cut Beefcake’s hair until he was able to block it, clear Gang from the ring and chase Slick away with the scissors WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification at 16:19 after Neidhart hit Martel with one of the title belts as he had Bret applied in the Boston CrabPrime Time Wrestling – 12/21/87: The Ultimate Warrior pinned Iron Mike Sharpe at 5:31 following a press slam Ricky Steamboat pinned Ron Bass at 9:26 with a flying bodypressPrime Time Wrestling – 12/31/87: Greg Valentine defeated Ken Johnson (sub. for Ivan Putski) via submission with the figure-4 at 3:04 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Ted Dibiase (w/ Virgil & Andre the Giant) at 9:30 with a roll up after Dibiase collided with Virgil on the apron; the referee originally called for the bell at 6:06 after Andre tripped Hogan from the outside, with referee Dave Hebner ordering Andre backstage and fining him $2000 (Hulk Hogan – Real American)WWF @ Kansas City, MO – Municipal Auditorium – December 12, 1987 (matinee) The Ultimate Warrior defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Greg Valentine defeated George Steele via count-out Ricky Steamboat defeated Ron Bass Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Brady Boone Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog Rick Rude defeated Paul Orndorff WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification Ted Dibiase (w/ Andre the Giant) defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan via count-out after Andre interferedWWF @ St. Louis, MO – Kiel Auditorium – December 12, 1987 (4,300) The Ultimate Warrior defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Ron Bass fought Sam Houston to a draw Greg Valentine defeated George Steele via count-out Hercules pinned the Junkyard Dog Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Brady Boone (sub. for Ken Patera) Ted Dibiase pinned Ricky Steamboat after Virgil interfered WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana defeated Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart via disqualification Andre the Giant & Rick Rude defeated WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Paul Orndorff when Andre pinned Orndorff after a headbuttWWF @ Boston, MA – Boston Garden – December 12, 1987 (13,000)Televised on NESN – included Gorilla Monsoon & Nick Bockwinkel on commentary, with Pete Doherty joining the commentary team beginning with the Bigelow / Bundy match:Prime Time Wrestling – 12/21/87: Jim Powers & Paul Roma defeated the Conquistadors at 15:41 when Roma scored the pin with a sunset flip off the topPrime Time Wrestling – 12/31/87: Koko B. Ware pinned Pete Doherty (sub. for Danny Davis) at 7:19 with the Ghostbuster The One Man Gang (w/ Slick) defeated Brutus Beefcake via count-out at 9:38 when, as both men were brawling on the floor, OMG got back inside the ring just before the 10-count; after the bout, Beefcake cleared OMG from the ring, punched Slick, and threatened to cut his hair until OMG pulled his manager out of the ring Bam Bam Bigelow (w/ Sir Oliver Humperdink) pinned King Kong Bundy at 4:27 with a splash after Bundy missed a splash of his own Jake Roberts pinned Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) with a roll up at 3:58 after Sika missed a charge in the corner; after the bout, Sika attacked Jake but then left the ring as Roberts went to open his snake bag Don Muraco fought Butch Reed (w/ Slick) to a 20-minute time-limit draw at 18:23; after the bout, Reed challenged Muraco to get back in the ring, calling him a beach bum and yellow, with Muraco then clearing Reed from the ring Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov (w/ Slick) at 7:39 when Smith pinned Volkoff after Zhukov tripped Smith from the outside as he attempted to slam Volkoff into the ring and the momentum sent Smith on top for the win Jim Duggan pinned King Harley Race at 4:40 after hitting him with his 2×4 behind the referee’s back Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Peggy Sue) via disqualification at 6:20 when Honky hit the challenger with the title belt; Jimmy Hart was suspended in a cage above the ring during the bout; after the match, Savage cleared Honky & Hart from the ring, took the wig off Peggy Sue, and left ringside with the title beltWWF @ Youngstown, OH – Beeghly Center – December 13, 1987 (6,000) (matinee) Paul Roma & Jim Powers defeated the Conquistadors at 23:30 Jake Roberts pinned Sika with the DDT at 15:02 Koko B. Ware pinned Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Danny Davis) at 16:19 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang with the legdrop at 10:45 Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov at 12:19 Butch Reed pinned Preston Steele (sub. for Don Muraco) with a flying tackle at 2:52 Jim Duggan fought King Harley Race to a double count-out at 6:35WWF @ Miami, FL – Knight Center – December 13, 1987 Dan Spivey defeated Jeff Lee The Ultimate Warrior defeated the Gladiator Sam Houston fought Ron Bass to a draw Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog Brutus Beefcake defeated Jim Neidhart Bret Hart defeated George Steele Bam Bam Bigelow & Paul Orndorff defeated Rick Rude & King Kong Bundy WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy SavageWWF @ East Rutherford, NJ – Meadowlands – December 13, 1987 (15,000)The scheduled Killer Khan vs. SD Jones match was cancelled Lanny Poffo pinned Iron Mike Sharpe (sub. for Danny Davis) Jake Roberts pinned Mr. Fuji Ted Dibiase pinned Koko B. Ware after Virgil tripped Koko Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Brady Boone (sub. for Ken Patera) Don Muraco fought Butch Reed to a double count-out Jim Duggan pinned King Harley Race after hitting him with his 2×4 WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan defeated the One Man Gang in a steel cage match by escaping over the topWWF @ Ft. Pierce, FL – St. Lucie County Civic Center – December 14, 1987 (2,285)Debut in Ft. Pierce Dan Spivey pinned Brady Boone Sam Houston fought Ron Bass to a draw The Ultimate Warrior pinned Rex Pate (sub. for Bob Orton Jr.) Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine via disqualification Rick Rude pinned Paul Orndorff Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog Bam Bam Bigelow pinned King Kong Bundy Randy Savage & George Steele defeated Bret Hart & Jim NeidhartWWF @ Atlantic City, NJ – Caesars Palace – December 16, 1987The Slammy Awards – 12/19/87 – Hosted by Vince McMahon, Gorilla Monsoon, Gene Okerlund, & Jesse Ventura; included live performances of songs from Piledriver: the Wrestling Album 2; Award Winners: Best Performance by an Animal – George Steele, Woman of the Year – Miss Elizabeth, Best Ring Apparel – King Harley Race, Hulk Hogan Real American Award – Superstar Billy Graham, Jesse “The Body” Award – Rick Rude, Greatest Hit – Jim Duggan, Manager of the Year – No winner, Best Personal Hygiene – Nikolai Volkoff, Boris Zhukov, & Slick, Best Vocal Performance – Jim Duggan, Song of the Year – No winner (envelope eaten by Sika), Best Group – One Man Gang, Humanitarian of the Year – Ted Dibiase, Best Head – Gene Okerlund & Bam Bam Bigelow, Bobby Heenan Scholarship Award – The Islanders, Andre the Giant, Hercules, King Kong Bundy, Rick Rude, & King Harley RaceWWF @ South Bend, IN – Athletic & Convocation Center – December 1987 Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera The Ultimate Warrior fought Hercules to a draw Brutus Beefcake defeated Greg Valentine Paul Orndorff pinned Rick Rude with the piledriver; Bruno Sammartino was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ New Haven, CT – Coliseum – December 26, 1987 (matinee) (6,000) Cowboy Lang & Chris Dube defeated Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook Dino Bravo pinned SD Jones with the side suplex Ted Dibiase defeated Jim Duggan via disqualification after Duggan stole his 2×4 away from Dibiase and hit him with it Raymond Rougeau pinned Haku; the bout was to have been the Islanders vs. the Rougeaus but Tama failed to appear Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine Ricky Steamboat defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via count-out; George Steele was the guest referee for the bout Randy Savage fought Rick Rude to a 20-minute time-limit draw Koko B. Ware pinned Sika with a dropkick off the middle turnbuckle B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell defeated the ConquistadorsWWF @ Syracuse, NY – Onondoga War Memorial – December 26, 1987 (matinee)Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong BundyWWF @ Toledo, OH – Sports Arena – December 26, 1987 (8,261) (matinee) Pepe Gonzales & Little Coco defeated Bad Boy Brown & Killer Cruz Hilbilly Jim pinned Barry Horowitz Danny Davis pinned Sam Houston Ron Bass defeated the Junkyard Dog Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Don Muraco defeated Slick (sub. for Butch Reed) via count-out Jake Roberts pinned Ron Bass (sub. for Hercules) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang (Hogan’s debut in Toledo)WWF @ Buffalo, NY – Memorial Auditorium – December 26, 1987Dan Spivey defeated Lanny Poffo Steve Lombardi defeated Tony Garea (sub. for the Ultimate Warrior) Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera fought Demolition to a double disqualification Jim Powers (w/ Paul Roma) pinned Bret Hart; after the bout, Bret challenged Roma to a match; the bout was originally scheduled as Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana in a tag match Paul Roma pinned Bret Hart The Ultimate Warrior (sub. for Paul Orndorff) defeated King Harley Race WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Leilani Kai & Judy Martin defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Bam Bam Bigelow defeated King Kong Bundy (w/ Andre the Giant)WWF @ Chicago, IL – Rosemont Horizon – December 26, 1987 (12,000) George Steele vs. Ron Bass was originally advertised for the show Hillbilly Jim defeated Barry Horowitz Pepe Gonzales & Little Coco defeated Bad Boy Brown & Killer Cruz Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog Danny Davis pinned Sam Houston Don Muraco (w/ Superstar Billy Graham) pinned Butch Reed Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Ted Dibiase pinned Jake Roberts WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned the One Man Gang; Nick Bockwinkel was the special referee for the bout; after the match, Hogan was attacked and busted open by Ted Dibiase & VirgilWWF @ New York City, NY – Madison Square Garden – December 26, 1987 (sell out)Televised on the MSG Network – included Gorilla Monsoon & Lord Alfred Hayes on commentary, with Bobby Heenan also providing commentary for the first four matches:Prime Time Wrestling – 1/4/88: Iron Mike Sharpe pinned SD Jones at 7:33 after hitting him in the head with his forearm supportPrime Time Wrestling – 1/4/88: Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Conquistadors at 13:07 when Jacques scored the pin following a double team move off the topPrime Time Wrestling – 1/4/88: Jim Duggan pinned Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) with the running clothesline at 9:16Prime Time Wrestling – 1/18/88: WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Rockin Robin at 7:30 after Sherri blocked a splash from the middle turnbuckle by lifting her knees Greg Valentine (w/ Jimmy Hart) defeated Brutus Beefcake via count-out at 11:53 after Beefcake chased Hart backstage; after the bout, Beefcake returned to the ring but was attacked by Valentine; moments later, Beefcake chased Valentine backstage with his scissors after blocking Valentine’s attempts to apply the figure-4 Ricky Steamboat fought Rick Rude (w/ Bobby Heenan) to a 20-minute time-limit draw at 20:28; after the bout, Heenan grabbed the microphone and told Steamboat he was lucky the match didn’t last another 5 minutes, otherwise Rude would have easily won, and that he himself could beat Steamboat in 5 minutes; Rude then attacked Steamboat from behind but Steamboat eventually cleared both he and Heenan from the ring (Steamboat’s last MSG appearance for more than 3 years) (WWE’s Top 50 Superstars of All Time) Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Koko B. Ware at 6:38 with the side suplexPrime Time Wrestling – 3/14/88: The Islanders (w/ Bobby Heenan) defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 10:45 when Haku pinned Brunzell after Tama hit a diving headbutt off the middle turnbuckle on Brunzell and placed his partner on top Cowboy Lang & Chris Dube defeated Little Tokyo & Lord Littlebrook at 3:19 when Lang pinned Littlebrook with a sunset flip Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Jimmy Hart & Peggy Sue) via disqualification at 9:29 after the champion shoved Savage into the referee; the referee was knocked down for several moments and didn’t come to his senses and ring the bell until after Savage was knocked to the floor after being hit with the title belt, as a result was unclear until the winner was announced; during the match, Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage; after the bout, Savage attacked Honky and Hart, then stole the wig off of Peggy Sue before all three ran backstage (Macho Madness)WWF @ Landover, MD – Capital Centre – December 27, 1987 (matinee) (13,000) Barry Horowitz pinned Jerry Allen Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Conquistadors Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo defeated Cowboy Lang & Karate Chris Dube Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack George Steele defeated Sika via count-out Greg Valentine pinned Brutus Beefcake after hitting him with a foreign object Ted Dibiase pinned Ricky Steamboat after Virgil tripped Steamboat from the floor and held his foot during the cover The Islanders defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Andre the Giant & King Kong Bundy when Bigelow pinned Bundy with a splash at 5:42 after Hogan hit the legdropWWF @ St. Paul, MN – Civic Center – December 27, 1987 (matinee) Rick Rude pinned Buck Zumhoff (sub. for Paul Orndorff) Danny Davis pinned Sam Houston Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo defeated Cowboy Lang & Karate Chris Dube Dino Bravo pinned Hillbilly Jim WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Rockin Robin Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Boris Zhukov & Nikolai Volkoff Don Muraco pinned Butch Reed Jake Roberts fought the One Man Gang to a double disqualification Randy Savage (w/ Miss Elizabeth) defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Peggy Sue) via disqualification; Jimmy Hart was suspended above the ring in a cage and Nick Bockwinkel was the guest referee for the boutWWF @ London, Ontario – London Gardens – December 27, 1987 (5,000) (matinee) The Ultimate Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi Koko B. Ware pinned Iron Mike Sharpe Paul Roma (w/ Jim Powers) pinned Bret Hart; after the bout, Bret challenged Powers to a match; the bout was originally scheduled as Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana in a tag match Jim Powers pinned Bret Hart Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes via disqualification WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Danny Spivey pinned Lanny Poffo Jim Duggan pinned King Harley RaceWWF @ Duluth, MN – Auditorium – December 27, 1987 Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo defeated Cowboy Lang & Karate Chris Dube Hercules defeated the Junkyard Dog Dino Bravo defeated Hillbilly Jim Danny Davis defeated Sam Houston WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri defeated Rockin Robin Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Don Muraco defeated Butch Reed Jake Roberts fought the One Man Gang to a double count-out Rick Rude defeated Buck Zumhoff (sub. for Paul Orndorff) Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification after the champion pulled Savage into guest referee Nick Bockwinkel, knocking him down; after the bout, Savage pulled off Peggy Sue’s wig to reveal her as WWF Women’s Champion Sensational SherriWWF @ Hull, Quebec – Robert Guertin Arena – December 27, 1987 The Ultimate Warrior defeated Steve Lombardi Koko B. Ware defeated Iron Mike Sharpe Paul Roma (w/ Jim Powers) pinned Bret Hart; after the bout, Bret challenged Powers to a match; the bout was originally scheduled as Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana in a tag match Jim Powers pinned Bret Hart Demolition defeated Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb Angels Danny Spivey defeated Lanny Poffo Jim Duggan defeated King Harley RaceWWF @ Toronto, Ontario – Maple Leaf Gardens – December 27, 1987 (17,500; sell out) Jerry Allen defeated Johnny K-9 (sub. for Barry Horowitz) Karate Chris Dube defeated Lord Littlebrook; the bout was originally scheduled as a tag team match with Dube & Cowboy Lang vs. Littlebrook & Little Tokyo Ron Bass defeated Outback Jack The Conquistadors defeated Jacques & Raymond Rougeau when Raymond was pinned The Islanders defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Greg Valentine defeated Brutus Beefcake Ricky Steamboat defeated Sika (sub. for Killer Khan) WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Ted Dibiase & King Kong Bundy when Hogan pinned BundyWWF @ Richfield, OH – Coliseum – December 28, 1987 (8,000) Hercules pinned the Junkyard Dog Dino Bravo pinned Hillbilly Jim Rick Rude pinned WWF Tag Team Champion Tito Santana (sub. for Paul Orndorff) Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid defeated Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov via disqualification Don Muraco pinned Butch Reed with a small package Danny Davis pinned Sam Houston The One Man Gang defeated Jake Roberts via count-out WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan & Bam Bam Bigelow defeated Andre the Giant & King Kong Bundy when Bigelow pinned BundyWWF @ Pittsburgh, PA – Civic Arena – December 28, 1987 (5,000) Jerry Allen pinned Barry Horowitz at 10:45 with a crossbody from the middle turnbuckle Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack at 7:22 with the Pedigree Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Conquistadors at 13:40 when Jacques pinneed Jose Luis Rivera George Steele fought Sika to a double count-out at 3:59 Karate Chris Dube & Cowboy Lang defeated Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo at 8:01 when Dube pinned Tokyo Brutus Beefcake pinned Greg Valentine at 8:58 after Beefcake used a foreign object Jimmy Hart intended for Valentine WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Rockin Robin at 7:29 after a suplex The Islanders defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell at 16:02 when Haku pinned Blair after Tama jumped off of the top onto Blair, then putting Haku on top for the cover Ted Dibiase pinned Ricky Steamboat at 13:50 as Virgil held Steamboat’s leg from the outside Randy Savage defeated WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man via disqualification at 5:37; Jimmy Hart was suspended in a cage atop the ring for the duration of the boutWWF @ Halifax, Nova Scotia – Forum – December 28, 1987 Bret Hart vs. Paul Roma; the bout was originally scheduled as Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana in a tag match Danny Spivey vs. Lanny Poffo The Ultimate Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi Koko B. Ware vs. Iron Mike Sharpe Demolition vs. Ken Patera & Billy Jack Haynes WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Jim Duggan vs. King Harley RaceWWF @ Dayton, OH – Hara Arena – December 29, 1987 Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo vs. Cowboy Lang & Karate Chris Dube Sam Houston vs. Danny Davis The Junkyard Dog vs. Barry Horowitz Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite Kid vs. Nikolai Volkoff & Boris Zhukov Jake Roberts vs. Hercules Brutus Beefcake vs. Greg Valentine Don Muraco (w/ Superstar Billy Graham) vs. the One Man Gang Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong BundyWWF @ Hershey, PA – Hersheypark Arena – December 29, 1987 (6,500) Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Conquistadors Rick Rude pinned WWF Tag Team Champion Tito Santana (sub. for Paul Orndorff) WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri pinned Rockin Robin The Islanders defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell Ted Dibiase pinned Ricky Steamboat George Steele defeated Sika via count-out WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via count-out at 5:00WWF @ Hamilton, Ontario – Copps Coliseum – December 29, 1987 (18,000)Featured Gorilla Monsoon & Nick Bockwinkel on commentary:Prime Time Wrestling – 1/12/88: Dan Spivey pinned Lanny Poffo at 8:41 with a neckbreaker after Poffo missed a dropkickPrime Time Wrestling – 1/12/88: The Ultimate Warrior pinned Steve Lombardi with a gorilla press slam at 7:43; Warrior used Jimmy Hart’s “Crank it Up” as his theme music for the match WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai defeated the Jumping Bomb AngelsPrime Time Wrestling – 5/30/88: Jim Duggan pinned King Harley Race at 8:51 when the momentum of a crossbody off the top by Race put Duggan on top for the winPrime Time Wrestling – 1/12/88: Bret Hart pinned Paul Roma (w/ Jim Powers) at 12:59 with an elbow drop from the middle rope after a backbreakerPrime Time Wrestling – 1/12/88: Koko B. Ware pinned Iron Mike Sharpe with the Ghostbuster at 6:03International Wrestling Challenge: Dino Bravo (w/ Frenchy Martin) pinned Hillbilly Jim with a clothesline to the back of the head at 4:45 after Jim became distracted by Martin on the ring apronInternational Wrestling Challenge: Demolition defeated Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera at 8:23 when Ax hit a double axe handle off the middle rope onto Haynes as Haynes had the full nelson applied on Smash, with Smash falling backwards for the win WWF World Champion Hulk Hogan pinned Butch Reed (w/ Slick) with the legdrop after Reed collided with Slick on the ring apron when Hogan moved out of the wayWWF @ Providence, RI – Civic Center – December 30, 1987 (2,500) Jerry Allen pinned Barry Horowitz Ron Bass pinned Outback Jack Ted Dibiase fought Ricky Steamboat to a 20-minute time limit draw WWF Tag Team Champion Tito Santana (w/ WWF Tag Team Champion Rick Martel) pinned Bret Hart; after the bout, Bret challenged Martel to a match; the bout was originally scheduled as Bret Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Rick Martel & Tito Santana in a tag match WWF Tag Team Champion Rick Martel pinned Bret Hart The Islanders defeated B. Brian Blair & Jim Brunzell when Haku pinned Blair George Steele fought Sika to a double count-out Jacques & Raymond Rougeau defeated the Conquistadors Rick Rude defeated Paul Orndorff in a steel cage match when Orndorff threw his opponent out the cage doorWWF @ Columbus, OH – Ohio Center – December 30, 1987 Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo vs. Cowboy Lang & Karate Chris Dube Bam Bam Bigelow vs. the One Man Gang Jake Roberts vs. King Kong Bundy Also included Greg Valentine, Brutus Beefcake, Don Muraco, the Junkyard Dog, Davey Boy Smith & the Dynamite KidWWF @ Springfield, IL – Prairie Capital Convention Center – December 30, 1987 Lanny Poffo vs. Dan Spivey The Ultimate Warrior vs. Steve Lombardi WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Rockin Robin Koko B. Ware vs. Iron Mike Sharpe WWF Women’s Tag Team Champions Judy Martin & Leilani Kai vs. the Jumping Bomb Angels Hillbilly Jim vs. Dino Bravo Demolition vs. Billy Jack Haynes & Ken Patera Jim Duggan vs. King Harley Race WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man (w/ Peggy Sue) vs. Randy SavageWWF @ Muskegon, MI – Walker Arena – December 31, 1987 Sam Houston vs. Danny Davis George Steele vs. Ted Dibiase WWF Tag Team Champion Tito Santana vs. Bret Hart; the match was advertised as Hart & Jim Neidhart vs. WWF Tag Team Champions Santana & Rick Martel WWF Women’s Champion Sensational Sherri vs. Rockin Robin Jim Duggan vs. the One Man Gang Bam Bam Bigelow vs. King Kong Bundy WWF IC Champion the Honkytonk Man defeated Randy Savage via disqualificationWWF @ Valhalla, NY – Westchester Community College – December 31, 1987 Lord Littlebrook & Little Tokyo vs. Cowboy Lang & Karate Chris Dube Also included Sika, Ron Bass, the Ultimate Warrior, Nikolai Volkoff, & Boris Zhukov
Copyright © 2025 The History of WWE.
Read our privacy policy.