2011 Missouri Football Preview: Kansas - Rock M Nation
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Rock M Nation homepage
Horizontal - White
Rock M Nation
a Missouri Tigers community
Follow Rock M Nation online:
Follow Rock M Nation on Twitter
Follow Rock M Nation on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Rock M Nation main menu
News
Analysis
Betting
Podcasts
Shop
Masthead
Tigers
About
Community Guidelines
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
News
Mizzou Football
Men’s Basketball
Women’s Basketball
Mizzou Baseball
Mizzou Softball
Mizzou Wrestling
Mizzou Gymnastics
Full Archive
Analysis
Mizzou Football Scholarship Math
Mizzou Hoops Scholarship Math
Basketball Deep Dives
Football Film Room
Betting
FanDuel College Football Odds
FanDuel College Basketball Odds
Missouri Football Odds
Missouri Basketball Odds
College Football Picks and Predictions
College Basketball Picks and Predictions
Podcasts
Before the Box Score
Dive Cuts
Watch on YouTube
Merch!
Shop
Masthead
Tigers
Stories
Schedule
Roster
Stats
Yahoo Tigers News
Yahoo Tigers Team Page
Yahoo Tigers Report
Yahoo Tigers Transactions
About
Community Guidelines
✕
Filed under:
2011 Missouri Football Preview: Kansas
By
Bill Connelly@SBN_BillC
Aug 30, 2011, 12:00pm CDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
2011 Missouri Football Preview: Kansas
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
The best play Kansas made in last year's Border War. (Photo via Bill Carter.)
2011 Missouri Football PreviewAnalysis: Dave Matter | Michael Atchison | Seth RosnerOpponents: Miami (Ohio) | Arizona State | Western Illinois | Oklahoma | Kansas State | Iowa State | Oklahoma State | Texas A&M | Baylor | Texas | Texas TechUnit Walkthroughs: Quarterback (Bonus) | Running Backs | Wide Receivers (Bonus) | Tight Ends | Offensive Line | Defensive Ends (Bonus) | Defensive Tackles | Linebackers | Cornerbacks | Safeties
2010 was an unmitigated disaster for the Kansas Jayhawks. We’ll pause one moment for you to smirk appropriately.
When he was head coach of the Buffalo Bulls, Turner Gill was known for milking every last ounce of talent out of his players, teaching conservative, fundamental football. His teams forced fumbles, created breaks for themselves, and won a surprising MAC title in 2008. It was easy to look at his profile and think, "Just imagine what he could do with a higher level of talent!" Well, when he took the Kansas job last winter, he inherited a squad that seemed to have less talent than most of the rest of the conference by far. They had a decent young back that wasn't as good as everybody else's young backs. They had a couple of solid linebackers who weren't as solid as everybody else's. Their offensive line was decent but not good enough to account for the lack of skill position talent.
With a gap this large, Kansas needed to take risks to win with this level of talent, and that isn't entirely in Gill's nature. The team was young enough that it isn't impossible to think things could improve when last year's freshmen are seniors, but it is nearly impossible to imagine the Jayhawks succeeding to much degree this coming fall. According to a combination of per-play and drive efficiency ratings, Kansas ranked dead last among BCS conference teams last year.
But the Border War will always be the Border War, name change be damned. In fact, it was the ease of last season’s Border War victory that seemed so striking. Prior to last year’s 28-point victory for Mizzou, the victors of the games held in Kansas City had combined for a winning margin of only 13 points from 2007-09. In a rivalry that has produced no shortage of odd moments, the teams’ tilt after Thanksgiving will once again be cause for concern. But does Kansas have enough to cause even a modicum of fear?
OFFENSE
How much of an impact can three or four skill position players make for an offense? For the 2007-09 seasons, Kansas' offense was driven by quarterback Todd Reesing and receivers Dezmon Briscoe and Kerry Meier (and, to a lesser extent, running back Jake Sharp). One had to figure that their departures would result in a step backwards for the 2011 Kansas offense, but not a Wile E. Coyote cliff dive. But in moving from Reesing to the trifecta of Jordan Webb, Quinn Mecham and (briefly) Kale Pick, in moving from Briscoe and Meier to Daymond Patterson and Bradley McDougald, in moving from Sharp to a youth-heavy rotation of James Sims and Deshaun Sands, and in moving from Mark Mangino and company to Gill and offensive coordinator Chuck Long, the offense completely fell apart.
The last time there was a fall this precipitous, it was after Washington State changed coaches between 2007 and 2008. Suffice it to say, Wazzu did not quickly bounce back. In fact, two years after their plummet, they made great progress just to get some of their offensive rankings back into the 80s. This was a nearly unprecedented collapse, and the precedent that does exist should be terrifying for Kansas fans. The Jayhawks tried desperately to establish the run in 2010, but with limited effectiveness. Sims was at least close to average as a freshman and could continue to grow as his career progresses, but his lack of explosiveness is disconcerting. Still, if Kansas is to overachieve in 2011, either he or incoming freshman Darrian Miller will likely be the reason.
What was perhaps most alarming about Kansas' 2010 stats is that Gill tried a number of players in a number of different roles, and almost nobody distinguished themselves. Webb, Mecham and Pick all averaged between 5.4 and 5.6 yards per pass, had nearly identical TD-to-INT ratios, and completed between 57 and 60 percent of passes. Meanwhile, D.J. Beshears, a solid athlete, couldn't establish a role for himself, and one of Kansas’ top weapons (Bradley McDougald) is now a strong safety. Hope for the offense comes in the form of freshman quarterback Brock Berglund, but even he has fallen prey to the Lawrence soap opera before taking a snap as a Jayhawk. Since decommitting from Colorado and enrolling early at Kansas, Berglund has compared himself to a combination of Tim Tebow, Michael Vick and Peyton Manning, and has reportedly alienated teammates with his attitude while missing spring practices and voluntary workouts this summer.
Relatively speaking, one has to consider the offensive line a reason for slight optimism.  They were average in terms of run blocking last year, and their horrid sack rates were as much the result of indecisive quarterbacks and no open receiving options as anything else. Three starters return on a line possessing 68 career starts and 14 total letters, led by Tanner Hawkinson and Jeremiah Hatch. When you're starving for experience, that certainly qualifies.
DEFENSE
Generally speaking, every defense in the country will fall into one of two philosophies: Either you can load up and attempt to force the action, or you can live to fight another down and hope the other team eventually makes a mistake. Kansas definitely attempted the latter in 2010, either because it wanted to or because its personnel left the Jayhawks no choice.
Either way, you can win games with a conservative, somewhat bend-don't-break approach if you have at least middling talent. When you are taking the job at a school that has historically been an underdog in its conference, however, you probably cannot afford to go conservative with your choice of defensive coordinator. That's exactly what Gill did in hiring Carl Torbush, presumably for his BCS pedigree at Mississippi State, Texas A&M, Alabama, North Carolina and Ole Miss. Yet, it had been a while since he was at the helm of a truly solid BCS conference defense. Without strong talent to bail him out, he had no idea what buttons to push, and in taking few risks, he and Gill left Kansas almost no chance to succeed through underdog strategies.
A prostate cancer diagnosis resulted in Torbush’s retirement in late May, and in his place steps cornerbacks coach Vic Shealy, whose last defensive coordinator job was with FCS Richmond in 2009. The cast of characters with whom he’ll be working does not look drastically different than it did last year. Defensive end Jake Laptad probably qualified as KU's best playmaker, but both he and linebacker Justin Springer are gone. So are defensive backs like 2007 contributor Chris Harris and safety Olaitan Oguntodu. Typically, losing contributors from a poor defense does make that much of a difference, but Laptad, Springer and Harris were still potentially Kansas' most explosive players along with linebacker Steven Johnson and nickelback Tyler Patmon.
It's hard to scope out any sort of strength, but you can at least talk yourself into the Kansas secondary. Despite the losses of Harris and Oguntodu, the Jayhawks still return a few interesting contributors like McDougald, Patmon, corner Isiah Barfield and safeties Lubbock Smith and Keeston Terry. The Jayhawks are hoping that tailback-turned-end Toben Opurum's second year in the position results in the breakthrough that his first did not. He is really the only returning end who had significant production in 2010, though growth from tackles Richard Johnson and Patrick Dorsey could alter the defensive line’s ceiling.
SERIES SPOTLIGHT: NOVEMBER 22, 1958 (Mizzou 13, Kansas 13)
Close your eyes for a second.  Allow yourself to drift back to the  evening of November 24, 2007.  Arrowhead Stadium.  It's the biggest game  in the history of the Border War.  Missouri has led throughout, but a  21-point lead has been whittled down to six.  They give Kansas the ball  back with under 30 seconds to go and almost the entire field to go.
You with me so far?  You know what happened in 2007--the "Sod  Reesing" incident.  One of the most fulfilling moments in Mizzou  history.  The Mizzou defensive line meets at the quarterback, and Todd Reesing is piledrived into the turf in the endzone, clinching a Mizzou victory, the North title, the #1 ranking, etc.  The moment is well-documented, to say the least.
Now imagine this scenario: instead of getting sacked, Reesing finds Dezmon Briscoe for a miraculous 89-yard touchdown.  Chaos ensues at Arrowhead.  Kansas  is just an extra point away from winning the game, moving on to the Big  12 Championship Game, advancing to #1 in the country, and scoring eternal bragging rights...
...and Mizzou blocks the PAT.  Tie game.  Of the 80,537 in  attendance, and the millions watching around the country, how many  Mizzou and Kansas fans would have dropped dead somewhere in that  sequence?
Granted, the game in 1958 was much less significant than what took  place in 2007, and in 2007 there would have been the most ulcer-inducing  overtime ever played (seriously, I don't know if I could have watched  that...), but that's pretty much what happened.  Mizzou's hopes for a  surprise Big 7 title were out the window after the whooping they took in  Norman the week before, and with few bowl games available, this game  was for pride.  Of course, this was Kansas, and Dan Devine almost always  got his team up for Kansas, going 8-3-2 in his 13 seasons in Columbia.
Sure enough, Mizzou came out ready to dominate.  Powered by Mel West's  102 rushing yards, they took a 13-0 lead into the fourth quarter, but  it should have been bigger.  Mizzou missed out on a series of scoring  opportunities, due mostly to the play of KU's Homer Floyd, who made a series of game-saving tackles.
In the fourth quarter, a completely ineffective Kansas offense  suddenly found its bearings.  They scored to cut the lead to 13-7, and  with time running out, Mizzou attempted a game-clinching field goal and  missed.  (Devine later admitted regretting the decision for a field goal  attempt.)  On the next play, Floyd caught an 80-yard touchdown pass  with only 18 seconds left.  It was an absolute dagger.
Eight days earlier, Mizzou had dreams of the Orange Bowl.  Now they  were staring a .500 record in the face.  But the craziness wasn't over  yet.  A point away from disastrous defeat, Mizzou's Dale Pidcock--who  had been injured most of the season and came back just in time for the  KU game--broke through the line and blocked the PAT.  Mizzou went from  certain victory, to certain defeat, to a tie in less than 30 seconds.   Mizzou fans had to be both crestfallen and relieved at the same time.   If that happened today, even under 1958 circumstances--two MU and KU  teams near .500, nothing on the line other than bragging rights--that  would have just been the most harrowing ending to a game.
FOOTBALL STUDY HALL
The Kansas Jayhawks And Unintended Schadenfreude
Kansas had a little bit of bad fumble luck, and their YPP margin  suggests they were rather unlucky there too.  They return a lot of  starters, and their five-year recruiting rank is decent. All of these  signs point to improvement in 2011.
But how much? The 2010 Jayhawks were the worst Big 12 team of the  last six years -- their minus-21.0% F/+ rating was significantly worse  than that of the second-worst team of that span, 2008 Iowa State  (-14.9%) -- and they ranked 32 spots worse than the second-worst Big 12  team (again, Iowa State) last fall. Because of their great 2007 season,  their four-year history is not terrible, and initial Football Outsiders Almanac 2011 projections have them battling it out with ISU for last place instead of finishing a distant last.
But that Washington State specter looms. Teams don't collapse out of  nowhere like this and immediately rebound with much velocity. While  Gill figures out what he has (and preferably begins to think about a new  pair of coordinators with an actual underdog mentality), it's not hard  to see Kansas improving a bit and at least showing occasional saltiness  in the fall; but it's also not hard to see the Jayhawks bottoming out. Kansas fans should look for individual progress from some of the  youngsters -- Webb at quarterback, Sims and Miller at running  back, et cetera -- in the hopes of building for 2012-13, but 2011 is  most likely not going to be too pleasant an experience in Lawrence,  especially not with their most winnable conference game (Iowa State)  coming on the road.
Next Up In
Links
Commute: News and Notes on Hoops, Wrestling, and Gymnastics
Keegan O’Toole: One of the GOATs
Commute: Disappointment
Commute: It’s NCAA Tournament Game Day for Mizzou Hoops!
Women’s Basketball Nabs its Next Coach in Kellie Harper
Commute: Mizzou Hoops Stays Ranked in Final Polls, Gymnastics Earns No. 4 Seed at SEC Championships
Most Read
Mizzou Basketball 2025 Transfer Tracker
The season is over, the portal is amongst us already.
Mizzou WBB Transfer Tracker
Expect larger roster turnover for the Tigers this offseason
Mizzou’s 2025 Football Schedule via SP+
Let’s use the best college football predictive metric to get a broad view of Mizzou’s upcoming slate
Aidan Shaw to enter the Transfer Portal
The Blue Valley high school product was once a top 70 recruit but will now seek other options after his third season with Mizzou, per his Instagram.
Commute: News and Notes on Hoops, Wrestling, and Gymnastics
The Morning Commute for Tuesday, March 25
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook