Log InNew Dealer? Create Account
Shop By Brand
Shop By Product
Close
Sale
Specials
New at BHC
Clearance & Other
Airguns
Ammunition & Reloading
Ammunition & Reloading
Ammunition
Reloading
Reloading Accessories
Archery & Accessories
Black Powder Accessories
Firearm Maintenance & Parts
Firearm Maintenance & Parts
Barrels
Gun Cleaning
Magazines
Firearms
Firearms
Actions & Barreled Actions
Black Powder
Pistols
Revolvers
Rifles & Lower Receivers
Short Barreled Rifles
Short Barreled Shotguns
Shotguns
Hunting Gear
Hunting Gear
Cases & Holsters
Clothing
Decoys
Hunting Accessories
Hunting Electronics
Scents & Calls
Knives & Multi-Tools
Optics & Accessories
Optics & Accessories
Optic Accessories
Optics
Safes
Suppressors
Order Pad
Register
Log In
My Account
Account Home
Change Password
View Open Orders
View Item History
Create/View Wish Lists
View Saved Orders
View/Pay Open Invoices
View Paid Invoices
Address Book
Find a Dealer
Find a Dealer
Search For:GOQuick Order EntryOrder PadItem:GoView Account
Log In
A Leading Wholesale Sporting Goods Distributor
We specialize in the hunting and shooting sports industry.
Previous
Next
Product Specialsarrow_forward
Dealer Specials Updated Weekly
Exclusivesarrow_forward
Dealer Exclusive Items
Become A Dealer
Apply Today
Brands
View All
The BHC Competitive Edge
Family Owned and Operated
Family owned and operated since 1969, we know that relationships matter. We're committed to nurturing positive long-term relationships with our manufacturers, our employees, and with you, our dealers. We want to partner with you to help your business grow and thrive.
Unparalleled Service & Support
Our knowledgeable sales representatives can help you find the products you need and walk you through the order process. Many of our reps are hunting and shooting sports enthusiasts who can recommend shooting sports products and accessories from an end user perspective. Once your order is placed, our customer service representatives are available to help ensure a smooth transaction from start to finish.
Extensive and Exclusive Product Offering
As one of the largest wholesale sporting goods distributors in the nation, we carry more than 30,000 products representing over 300 well known and respected manufacturers. If it's at the forefront of the latest and greatest products that the industry has to offer, we can obtain if for you. We also have our own line of carefully curated BHC Exclusives designed to enhance your competitive edge.
Powerful Technology
Our DEALER DASHBOARD puts you in control 24/7. Not only can you order what you want when you want it, you can also view inventory availability, track and review current and past orders, run reports, view invoices and more. Our powerful online tools help you manage your business in ways that are easier, faster and smarter than ever before.
Learn More About BHC
Stay Connected
Become a Dealer
Bill Hicks & Co., Ltd. is a leading wholesale sporting goods distributor that specializes in the hunting and shooting sports industry. If you are a sporting goods dealer who would like to become a member of our exclusive mailing list, please contact us at (800) 223-0702.
Apply Today
About
About Us
Employment Opportunities
Contact
FAQs
Digital Image Library FTP
BHC FFL
Legal
Terms and Conditions of Sale
Terms and Conditions of Website
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Copyright ©  Bill Hicks & Co., Ltd.   |   All Rights Reserved   |   Powered by