Las Vegas Raiders: Breaking News, Rumors & Highlights | Yardbarker
NEWSLETTERS
Emailed Daily.  Always Free!
Home
Quizzes
My Quiz Activity
Newsletters
Sports Betting
MY FAVORITES
Add Sports/Teams
SPORTS
NFL
NFL Home
Arizona Cardinals
Atlanta Falcons
Baltimore Ravens
Buffalo Bills
Carolina Panthers
Chicago Bears
Cincinnati Bengals
Cleveland Browns
Dallas Cowboys
Denver Broncos
Detroit Lions
Green Bay Packers
Houston Texans
Indianapolis Colts
Jacksonville Jaguars
Kansas City Chiefs
Las Vegas Raiders
Los Angeles Chargers
Los Angeles Rams
Miami Dolphins
Minnesota Vikings
New England Patriots
New Orleans Saints
New York Jets
New York Giants
Philadelphia Eagles
Pittsburgh Steelers
San Francisco 49ers
Seattle Seahawks
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Tennessee Titans
Washington Commanders
MLB
MLB Home
Athletics
Arizona Diamondbacks
Atlanta Braves
Baltimore Orioles
Boston Red Sox
Chicago White Sox
Chicago Cubs
Cincinnati Reds
Cleveland Guardians
Colorado Rockies
Detroit Tigers
Houston Astros
Kansas City Royals
Los Angeles Angels
Los Angeles Dodgers
Miami Marlins
Milwaukee Brewers
Minnesota Twins
New York Yankees
New York Mets
Philadelphia Phillies
Pittsburgh Pirates
San Diego Padres
San Francisco Giants
Seattle Mariners
St. Louis Cardinals
Tampa Bay Rays
Texas Rangers
Toronto Blue Jays
Washington Nationals
NBA
NBA Home
Atlanta Hawks
Boston Celtics
Brooklyn Nets
Charlotte Hornets
Chicago Bulls
Cleveland Cavaliers
Dallas Mavericks
Denver Nuggets
Detroit Pistons
Golden State Warriors
Houston Rockets
Indiana Pacers
Los Angeles Clippers
Los Angeles Lakers
Memphis Grizzlies
Miami Heat
Milwaukee Bucks
Minnesota Timberwolves
New Orleans Pelicans
New York Knicks
Oklahoma City Thunder
Orlando Magic
Philadelphia 76ers
Phoenix Suns
Portland Trail Blazers
Sacramento Kings
San Antonio Spurs
Toronto Raptors
Utah Jazz
Washington Wizards
NHL
NHL Home
Anaheim Ducks
Boston Bruins
Buffalo Sabres
Calgary Flames
Carolina Hurricanes
Chicago Blackhawks
Colorado Avalanche
Columbus Blue Jackets
Dallas Stars
Detroit Red Wings
Edmonton Oilers
Florida Panthers
Los Angeles Kings
Minnesota Wild
Montreal Canadiens
Nashville Predators
New Jersey Devils
New York Islanders
New York Rangers
Ottawa Senators
Philadelphia Flyers
Pittsburgh Penguins
San Jose Sharks
Seattle Kraken
St. Louis Blues
Tampa Bay Lightning
Toronto Maple Leafs
Utah Hockey Club
Vancouver Canucks
Vegas Golden Knights
Washington Capitals
Winnipeg Jets
NCAAF
NCAAM
Olympics
Boxing
Entertainment
Entertainment Home
Movies
TV
Streaming
Music
Comic Books
Lifestyle
Lifestyle Home
Health
Food
Drinks
Travel
Golf
MMA
Soccer
Tennis
Wrestling
More Sports
RESOURCES
My Account
YB on Facebook
YB on Twitter
YB on Flipboard
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL
NCAAF
Sports Betting
Entertainment
Quizzes
···
Boxing
CFL
Casino
College Basketball
College Football
Entertainment
Formula One
Golf
Gymnastics
Horse Racing
IndyCar
MLS
MMA
Motor Sports
NASCAR
Olympics
Premier League
Skiing
Soccer
Sports Betting
Sports Business
Tennis
Track and Field
UFL
WNBA
Wrestling
More Sports ▸
Follow Us
On Facebook
On Flipboard
On Twitter
NEWSLETTERSEmailed Daily.  Always Free!
Las Vegas Raiders News
Home
Quizzes
Watch
Newsletter
Power Rankings
Raiders WR Target Unleashes Wicked 40 Time
The Las Vegas Raiders will target the wide receiver position heavily in the 2025 NFL Draft as they look to pair generational tight end talent Brock Bowers with another weapon or two alongside Jakobi Meyers.
Features
The Morning Bark
The Quiz of the Day
Popular Topics
Sports Betting
6 min
Trades & Transactions
8 min
Yardbarker Originals
Follow Us
Free Newsletters
On Facebook
On Twitter
On Flipboard
On YouTube
Las Vegas Raiders News / A to Z Sports / March 25
Las Vegas Raiders won't be bringing back key player from 2024 season after he revealed it in a cryptic IG post
The Las Vegas Raiders have been adding players during free agency, retaining others, and letting some go. So, the roster and depth chart for 2025 under former Seattle Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll will look vastly different.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Silver and Black Pride / March 25
Raiders mock draft 2025: Mason Graham landing in Las Vegas’ lap would be fantastic
Defensive-heavy 7-round excursion addresses several areas of opportunities We’re just a month out from the 2025 NFL Draft. And that’s the golden opportunity for both general manager John Spytek and head coach Pete Carroll to further build the Las Vegas Raiders to their liking.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
Raiders Are Turning Things Around with Signings & Trades
The Las Vegas Raiders have done something very different this offseason that we have not seen from them in recent years. The Silver and Black have been very aggressive in going after players they need most at important positions.
Christian Elliss News / Athlon Sports / March 25
Raiders' Final Contract Offer to Christian Elliss Revealed
The Las Vegas Raiders are remaking their linebacker room with the losses of Divine Deablo and Robert Spillane in free agency. The team signed Elandon Roberts already and was trying to bring in Christian Elliss.
Geno Smith News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
Raiders' Smith Trade Impacting Bears 2025 Draft Plans
The Las Vegas Raiders made a surprising trade this offseason when they acquired veteran quarterback Geno Smith from the Seattle Seahawks. Now the Raiders have their quarterback that they have been looking for.
Tom Brady News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
Raiders' Tom Brady Opens Up with Truth Bomb
The Las Vegas Raiders have arguably the greatest football player of all time on their side in minority owner Tom Brady. His winning pedigree and experience around top-notch football cultures and efficient organizations has already done wonders for the Silver and Black and owner Mark Davis.
UNLV Rebels News / Athlon Sports / March 25
Award-winning WR makes it clear he wants to join Raiders
While he'd be happy to play anywhere, he wasn't shy about his love for Las Vegas.
Deion Sanders has four-word response to talk of him wanting Shedeur on Giants
Insider gives big update on what Browns want from rookie QB
Reporter suggests Giants could pass on drafting QB Shedeur Sanders at pick No. 3
Who are the best NFL players from the 21st century?
The '2024-25 NFL first-team All-Pro' quiz
Sam Webb News / Raiders Newswire / March 25
Sam Webb Re-Signs On One-Year Deal
The Las Vegas Raiders have a lot of work to do this offseason to give the roster any chance of competing in the AFC West and the rest of the NFL. The division has only gotten tougher this offseason as the Kansas City Chiefs, Denver Broncos and Los Angeles Chargers all made moves to better their respective teams.
NFL News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
Latest SI Mock Draft (7.0) Ties Raiders to Big Name
The Las Vegas Raiders have been favored to select Boise State running back Ashton Jeanty perhaps more than any other team and any other player. The two have been interlinked all draft season.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Yardbarker / March 25
Raiders still have glaring needs that must be addressed
Free agency continues to be difficult for the Las Vegas Raiders.
Raiders to sign veteran DL for extra depth at position
Raiders not close to free-agent WR addition
Former Raiders interim GM joins Dolphins staff
25 NFL all-timers who never won the Super Bowl
The 'Most recent 100-reception season for each NFL team' quiz
Leki Fotu News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
Raiders Make It Official with Veteran DL
The Las Vegas Raiders have officially signed defensive tackle Leki Fotu. Per a press release, "The Las Vegas Raiders have signed unrestricted free agent DT Leki Fotu, the club announced Tuesday.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Dice City Sports / March 25
Veteran tight end signs with Raiders to bolster depth
As hard as it is to believe, the Las Vegas Raiders have a slight issue with their tight end room. Despite the record-smashing rookie season by Brock Bowers, the Raiders may have precious little behind him.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
NFL Mock Draft: Raiders Don’t Pass Up on Jeanty
The Las Vegas Raiders have been linked to many prospects across multiple mock drafts. They could use help at every position, and with the sixth pick, they'll still have a lot of options available to them.
Las Vegas Raiders News / A to Z Sports / March 25
One of the most underrated wide receivers in the 2025 NFL Draft would be a perfect fit for the Raiders, and he knows it, too
There's no secret that the Las Vegas Raiders need a wide receiver. Whether they add another one in the 2025 NFL Draft or through free agency is a different story.
Ian Thomas News / NFLTradeRumors.co / March 25
Raiders Announce They Signed TE Ian Thomas
The Las Vegas Raiders announced they have signed TE Ian Thomas to a contract. Thomas has built a reputation as primarily a blocking tight end and will add some depth for the Raiders there.  Thomas, 28, is a former fourth-round pick of the Panthers back in 2018 out of Indiana.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Athlon Sports / March 25
Raiders TE Brock Bowers Details First Meeting With Tom Brady
The Las Vegas Raiders struck gold last April when they selected Georgia tight end Brock Bowers with the No. 13 pick in the NFL Draft. On Tuesday, Bowers appeared on "Up & Adams" and discussed the team's new minority owner, Tom Brady.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
The Raiders' Most Pressing Questions on Defense
The Las Vegas Raiders' defense has been their strength over the past two seasons, as their offense routinely struggled to figure things out on Sundays.
Geno Smith News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
Ranking the New-Look Raiders Following Early Moves
The Las Vegas Raiders traded for quarterback Geno Smith early in free agency to help solidify their quarterback position which has been unstable for the past two seasons.
Jim Plunkett News / Las Vegas Raiders on SI / March 25
HOF Voting Member on the Case For Jim Plunkett
The Raiders organization has its rich history of former players and coaches. The Raiders franchise is one of a kind and way different from all the rest.
Las Vegas Raiders News / The Raider Ramble / March 25
Las Vegas Raiders Continue Adding To Trenches With Latest Signing
The theme of the Las Vegas Raiders’ ’25 offseason has been building through the trenches. That was made clear when the team extended Maxx Crosby, and continued staying true with extensions to Adam Butler, Malcolm Koonce and Zach Carter.
Las Vegas Raiders News / The Raider Ramble / March 25
How Different Will The Raiders’ Secondary Look In 2025?
Heading into the 2025 season, the Las Vegas Raiders‘ defense is going to look very different. From Nate Hobbs to Robert Spillane and Tre’Von Moehrig, a few stalwarts from the last couple of seasons have moved on in free agency.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Dice City Sports / March 25
Raiders roster move blocked by AFC rival
Throughout the last week, a saga has been brewing between the Las Vegas Raiders and New England Patriots regarding linebacker Christian Elliss. A restricted free agent, the Raiders brought in Elliss for a visit before signing him to an offer sheet on Friday.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Dice City Sports / March 25
Raiders sign depth defensive tackle to help run defense
The Las Vegas Raiders have placed a heavy emphasis on depth this season. Far too many positional groups suffered as a result of injuries in 2024, with far too many significant pieces missing good chunks of the season.
Las Vegas Raiders News / Pro Football Rumors / March 23
Raiders not close to free-agent WR addition
The Raiders’ offense has undergone several changes this offseason, with the trade for quarterback Geno Smith being the most impactful one. Questions still loom at the receiver position, but movement on that front does not appear to be close.
Trending News
NFL -
Stefon Diggs signs huge contract with AFC team
NFL -
Wilson in line to start after finally signing with new team
MLB -
Angels make surprising decision on pitching prospect
NCAAM -
NCAA tournament team dropping to Division III in shocking move
NFL -
Steelers' quarterback situation suddenly gets more complicated
NHL -
Canadiens receive multiple pieces of bad news
MLB -
Angels release former first overall pick
NHL -
Maple Leafs' depth in crease takes potential hit
My Favorites
NFL
News
Stefon Diggs signs huge contract with AFC team
Russell Wilson in line to start after finally signing with new team
Bengals have taken one outcome 'off the table' with Trey Hendrickson?
MLB
News
Angels make surprising decision on pitching prospect
You may not believe what Pirates star Paul Skenes does before starts
Newly acquired slugger aims to provide protection for reigning AL MVP
NBA
News
Bronny James is showing he’s more than just a famous last name
Bronny James continues progression with career-best in G League
Should Kings star be suspended for Jayson Tatum injury?
NHL
News
Capitals re-sign key defenseman to long-term contract
How Jakob Chychrun’s new contract could impact Evan Bouchard’s next deal
Top priority for the Oilers isn’t winning the division – it’s making sure McDavid, Draisaitl are healthy
College Football
News
Bill Belichick may have had good reason for skipping UNC pro day
Stanford opening gives Andrew Luck chance to quickly remake Cardinal
Reporter suggests Giants could pass on drafting QB Shedeur Sanders at pick No. 3
College Basketball
News
Michigan State is mirroring its 2000 national championship run
Duke-Arizona Sweet 16 matchup will complete March Madness trilogy
NCAA tournament team dropping to Division III in shocking move
Customize Your Newsletter
+
Get the latest news and rumors, customized to your favorite sports and teams. Emailed daily. Always free!
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
MY ACCOUNT SUBSCRIBE ADVERTISE JOBS FAQ
PRIVACY POLICY EDITORIAL POLICY CONTACT US
ABOUT YARDBARKER TERMS OF SERVICE
FREE NEWSLETTERS
Copyright 2025 YB Media, LLC.
All rights reserved.
Use of this website (including any and all parts and
components) constitutes your acceptance of these
Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
This site is for entertainment purposes only.There is no gambling offered on this site.
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-Gambler.