Lonn Remembers Michelle Meldrum - antiMUSIC News
☰
News
Reviews
Day in Rock
RockNewsWire
.
Lonn Remembers Michelle Meldrum
05/30/2008
.
(antiMusic) In Lonn Friend's latest column he recalls some of his favorite memories of Michelle Meldrum, who lost her life to a brain tumor earlier this month. Here is one of the antidotes Lonn offers in his column about when he turned Metallica on to Michelle's band Phantom Blue. Here is Lonn:As referenced in the Metallica chapter of Life on Planet Rock, I picked up James Hetfield one evening during Metallica's  Black sessions and while he was cracking my windshield with a rough mix of "Holier Than Thou," I suggested we check out this all-girl metal band, Phantom Blue, playing at the Roxy.  Former Elektra Records publicist, Byron Hontas, PR point man on Ride the Lightning and Master of Puppets, touted them. What I have never written anywhere are the circumstances under which Byron and I met.  I was an editor at HUSTLER, not sure what my exact title was at the time but I had my content hands in just about everything (except the photo shoots ï¿½ I knowï¿½lame).  I get a call from the Elektra publicity department which was perhaps the first time I ever spoke to someone who worked at a record company. I had longed to share time and ramble with musicians.... Bryon pitches me this idea; "Metallica, a big thrash band from San Francisco, and has a new LP coming out called Master of Puppets," says the man nicknamed Poca Hontas.  "I was thinking how cool it would be to shoot the band with four hot HUSTLER models on strings." Get me more chips, I'm all in. Fortunately for the legacy of the band I would later come to know as 'family' (or fairly close), Q Prime management put a screeching halt to our misogynistic marionette fantasy. The project's death birthed a friendship with Byron that's thrived to this day.Four songs into the Phantom Blue set, the mighty Hetfield giggles, "Chicks shouldn't play this sh*t."  No one heard the comment, especially the blonde on lead guitar named Michelle Meldrum.... As time and tide passed, chops were honed, new bands were formed, and life in studio and on the road was experienced full scale. As Michelle's rock got harder and more focused on her 'shred', she caught the eye of her testosterone driven peeps.  Opinions on the woman's role in metal have evolved. Didn't Avril Lavigne perform at Metallica's MTV Icon ceremony?  The shift is on.  - Read the full article for some more cool Michelle stories
Preview and Purchase Michelle Meldrum CDs
Michelle Meldrum MP3 Downloads
.
advertisement
Day In RockBlack Rebel Motorcycle Club Launching First Headline Tour in 5 Years- Chevelle Recruit Asking Alexandria and Dead Poet Society For Summer Tour- moreOzzy Osbourne To Perform On Throne At Final Concert- Kirk Hammett Plots Solo Album And Has 767 Riffs For Next Metallica Record- more
Miley Cyrus Shares Trailer For 'Something Beautiful' Visual Album- Elton John and Brandi Carlile Announce Short Film Premiere- more
Day In CountryKenny Chesney Named To The Country Music Hall of Fame- Eric Church Hits Career High With 'Hands Of Time'- Maren Morris Announces New Album- more
Reviews
Bob James & Dave Koz - Just Us
Lordi - Limited Deadition
Travel News, Trips and Tips: Spring In To Travel With These Items
Dr. John - Gris-Gris Gumbo Ya Ya: Singles 1968-1974
Jethro Tull - Curious Ruminant
Latest News
Black Rebel Motorcycle Club Launching First Headline Tour in 5 Years
Chevelle Recruit Asking Alexandria and Dead Poet Society For Summer Tour
Aerosmith Offshoot Close Enemies Announce New Tour Dates
Five For Fighting And Vertical Horizon Plot Summer Tour
Guster Reveals Lineup And Activities For On The Ocean Fest 2025
Caliban Recruit Joe Bad For 'Dear Suffering'
Hail The Sun To Rock amphitheaters With Ice Nine Kills
Warfield Deliver 'Appetitive Aggression' Video
Contact Us -  Privacy - Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Copyright© 2025 Iconoclast Entertainment Group All rights reserved.