Luc Lafortune - BIOGRAPHY
1
2
3
Luc
Lafortune is one of the world’s leading lighting
designers as well as one of the original creators of the
world renowned Cirque du Soleil. He has been associated
with the company since its beginnings in 1984.
In
twenty years, Luc has achieved an international reputation
as one of the most daring and inventive designers. He
has created iconic, exhilarating and profoundly moving
imagery for some of the world’s most revered artists.
He works widely in both conceptual and technical development,
having collaborated with the likes of Franco Dragone,
Dominic Champagne,
Robert Lepage and Mark Fisher.
At Cirque
du Soleil, his resumé includes the shows O, Le Cirque Réinventé, Fascination, Nouvelle
Expérience, Saltimbanco, Mystère, Alegría, Quidam, La
Nouba, Dralion, Varekai, Zumanity and Ka. He was also co-director
of photography for the video recording of the show Quidam.
Many internationally acclaimed
artists have also called upon his talents. He has worked
with No Doubt, The Eagles, Gipsy Kings,
and The Dixie Chicks. In
2002, he worked with Peter Gabriel,
designing the lighting for his world tour, Growing Up.
The excellence of his work
has garnered him many awards. In 1992, his design for the show Saltimbanco
earned him a Drama-Logue Theater
Award. In 1994, he received the Lighting
Dimensions International (LDI) Lighting Designer of the year Award. In 1997, his work on Martin
Professionals The Atomic Lounge, for which Luc
Lafortune was artistic director, won the LDI
Award for Best Light Show. In 1998, he received
an Entertainment Design Award for his lighting design for the show O, as well as a THEA
(Themed Entertainment Association) Award, in 1999. And finally, in 2005, Luc Lafortune was honored with the USITT (United States
Institute of Theatre Technology) Distinguished Achievement
Award in Lighting Design.
Luc Lafortune is also a sought
after speaker, having been invited to share his knowledge
and thoughts with students and professionals alike, all
over the world.
1 - KÀ, Cirque du Soleil,
Photo: Nils Becker
2 - Growing
up - Peter Gabriel
3 - O,
Cirque du Soleil, Photo:
John Gurzinski
-
© Luc Lafortune 2014