The Alice Joyce Website
The Alice Joyce Website
NOTE: This site is no longer being updated as of April 2024 as it's no longer easily accessible to me.  It's long been impossible to keep up with the broken links.  Remember that if you find a broken link that you
wanted to follow, copy the URL and paste it into the Wayback Machine, and look at a cache from a few years back.   And you might want to bookmark the URL for this page since it site itself will doubtless go offline at some point when Stanford pulls down the legacy webspace, so it may also only be available via the Wayback Machine
Serene is the adjective most writers choose to describe the lovely Alice Joyce. With a serious and usually placid demeanor, Joyce was an unusual star in the 1920s. She started in films in 1910, and swiftly advanced in popularity, dropped out of films in the mid teens and again in the early 20s to care for her children, then returned to the screen in more important films than ever. After having been a contract player in routine programmers in the teens, she now freelanced, and was in demand whenever an actress of particular distinction and dignity was required. Unlike most stars, she was willing the play the mother of adult children, roles which were older than her real years. She nabbed some plum roles in great films in the 20s, including two memorable proto-feminist parts in Dancing Mothers (1926) and The Homemaker (1925). Thoughout her career she was referred to as "the Madonna of the Screen.
What's new?
The Madonna of the Screen
The life and career of Alice Joyce
Filmography
with a listing of archival holdings, video availability and links to new and vintage reviews
Picture Gallery
Homes and Haunts
Addresses associated with Alice Joyce
More Pictures on the Web
The Silent Ladies photo gallery on Alice Joyce
Joyce UnconfinedFrom the program for the San Francisco Silent Film Festival 2024 by Nora Fiore
Contemporary articles
Popular "Movie" Actress
by Mary Chamberlin
Theatre Magazine, May 1913
Interview
by Frederick James Smith
The New York Dramatic Mirror, June 18, 1913
The Venus of the "Movies"
Cosmopolitan, November 1913, p. 839-840
A Chat with Alice Joyce
by Roberta Courtlandt
Moving Picture Magazine, October 1914
Alice Joyce, Honeymoon Truant
by Pearl Gaddis
Photoplay Magazine, May 1915
Pretty Alice Joyce
Film Flashes, 1916?
Tricks with a Chafing-dish: How Alice Joyce Camped Out in the Studio
by Helen Lowell
Motion Picture Magazine, July 1917
(thanks to Frederica for this and the next one)
Alice Joyce's vacation
by Elizabeth Reid
Motion Picture Magazine, July 1917
Alice for Short
by Frederick James Smith
Photoplay Magazine, October 1917, p. 77+
The Lady of Vast Silences
by Ada Patterson
Photoplay Magazine, March 1920, p. 85+
Watching Alice Joyce
by Harold Howe
Dramatic Mirror & Theatre World, November 27, 1920, p. 1017
Alice, Where Have You Been?
by E.V. Durling
Photoplay Magazine, May 1924, p. 72+
Films Online
The Colonel's Escape  on youTube with English intertitles and  the EYE youTube channel with Dutch intertitles
The Runaway Engine  the EYE youTube channel
Mexican Filibusterers the EYE youTube channel
Slim Jim's last chance the EYE youTube channel
The Hero Track Walker the EYE youTube channel
The Organ grinder  the EYE youTube channel
Films on Video
Selected Bibliography
Other materials on the Web
A Louella Parsons interview with Alice Joyce in Taylorology 63
"Anent Alice (Joyce) Mary (Pickford) Moore and her Very Proud Motherfrom The Green Book Magazine v.16 on Google Books
Short biography on Golden Silents
The First One Hundred Noted Men and Women of the Screen  by Carolyn Lowrey (1920) includes an article on Alice Joyce
Miss Madelyn Mack, Detective (1914) by Hugh Cosgrove Weir  was issued in conjunction with Kalem's Madelyn Mack films and contains several pictures of Joyce.  It's online at The Internet Archive  and Google Books
A picture of Alice Joyce's Grave
Links to other general silent film sites
Alt.movies.silent FAQ
Great source of basic information from the alt.movies.silent newsgroup, including links to other silent film sites
The American Film Institute catalog of motion pictures produced in the United States : Silent Films
The online version of the AFI catalog contains information about silent features, plus some short films up to 1911.  There is also members' only access to catalog entries on sound features.
Media History Digital Library
Scans of extensive runs of several important trade journals and fan magagazines including Moving Picture World, Photoplay, Wids/Film Daily, and others.
The Women Film Pioneers Project
Articles on women filmmakers of the silent era, edited by Jane Gaines, Radha Vatsal, and Monica Dall’Asta,
Glen Pringle's Silent Movies
Silent star of the month, links to silent film interest groups, and lots of links to other silent film sites
Silents are Golden
Nice features, lots of vintage reviews, great list of silent films on video.
The Silent Film Still Archive
An ever-growing collection of fascinating film stills of the silent era
Silent Era
A new, but growing, site with information and reviews on silents on DVD and VHS, information about stars, book reviews, and Presumed Lost, a preliminary listing of lost films
100 Years of Hollywood and the Stars of 1910 to 2010
A nice new site by film historian William Drew on the movie stars of the 1910s.
Golden Silents
A nice new site featuring biographical information on many stars, tinted photos, film clips
Gilda's Blue Book of the Screen
Great articles on Silent Film, as well as lots of links
Welcome to Silent Movies
Features, calendars, and assorted facts on the silent film era
Created and maintained by Greta de Groat,
Photos from the author's collection
Many thanks to Derek Boothroyd for most of the contemporary print materials (and also for proofreading)
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 2.5 License.
©2003, by Greta de Groat
Last revised  April 20, 2024