GameBaz.com - Shopping@Japan Japan Proxy Buying Auction Bidding Forwarding Tenso Service
This site requires JavaScript and Cookies to be enabled to function properly.Please change your browser settings or upgrade your browser.
GameBaz.com - Shopping@Japan Japan Proxy Buying Auction Bidding Forwarding Tenso Service
$/¥
Pricing
Guide
FAQ
Estimate
Order
List
Cart
Cannot receive our mails?Please check the Spam/Junk Mail folder and add us to your contacts.Thank you!
[Coronavirus Alert] Important NoticeThere are substantial delays for both inland and international mails.Thank you for your understanding.
[Coronavirus Alert] Suspension of SAL and Airmail to USA.Only EMS and Surface mail are available for orders to USA until further notice.
Shopping@Japan
Gamebaz.com
Quote & Order
Get Quote
My Save List
My Shop Cart
Shopping@Japan
About SAJ
How to Order
FAQs
Quotation
Pricing
Pricing
Cost Calculator
Shipping/Payment
About Shipping
Credit Card
Gift Card
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Top
Shopping@Japan : Japanese Goods Buying & Auction Bidding Service / Special Order From Japan
We are delighted to introduce our Shopping@Japan service, a proxy buying / bidding service to help customers purchase products from Japan online shops / auctions.
Desperate for good hunting in Japan?
Have you ever tried to purchase Japanese products online but failed?
There are lots of attractive goodies in Japan but usually the sellers refuse to ship overseas. Other reasons include payment method restrictions and language barriers.
You can now enjoy shopping in Japan!
We will help you overcoming the barriers.
Gamebaz Shopping@Japan is a perfect place for customers who want to purchase products from Japan with ease. We can help customers placing orders directly from Japan online shops / auctions. Such as:
1. PRICING
Total Price = (A) Item Price + (B) Our Service Charge + (C) Shipping Charge
Please refer to Pricing Page for details
Please also use our Cost Calculator for a quick price estimation
2. HOW TO ORDER?
Please refer to our Order Procedure page.
Please feel free to Tell us the details of the product you want and we will give you a free quotation service.
3. PAYMENT METHODS
Please refer to our Payment Method page for payment methods we accept.
Full payment must be made before we start the search and purchase.
This service will be settled in US Dollar.  The Japanese Yen will be converted into US Dollar at prevailing exchange rate at the time of order placement.
For non US users, after paying us with credit card / Paypal, your credit card company will convert it back to your local currency based on their exchange rates.
Please allow 2~3 weeks for us to perform the search and purchase. If it turns out that the item you want to order is sold out in Japan , we will process a refund to you deducted by any charges imposed by the payment agent (e.g. PayPal, Bank charges).
4. DELIVERY
Please refer to our About Shipping page for delivery methods we offer.
Please allow 2~3 weeks for us to arrange the order before we can ship the good to you.
For pre-order products, we will ship to you after the product is arrived.
5. TERMS & CONDITION
Because of the service nature, specific terms apply to our Shopping@Japan service. Please refer to our Disclaimer Page for details.
About Us
|
Terms of Sales
|
Privacy Notice
|
Link to Us
|
Contact Us
© 2003-2025 GameBaz Japan Buying Service.  All Rights Reserved.