Mike Freeland Interview – 23 June 2007
Praying Mantis: Old version of the site. For the latest click here
New Album Sanctuary Out Soon!
Main
Main Page
News and updates
Search
Band History
Roadie Memories
The
Journey Goes On Album
Limited
Edition Nowhere To Hide
Discography
Discography
DVD
Videos
Cover Songs
Rare Songs
Members Other Projects
Buy CD's From
Interviews
Interview Index
Tino Chris Interview 2007
Mike Freeland Interview 2007
The
Journey Goes On Interview 2003
Chris
Troy - May 2000
Dennis
Stratton - Nov 99
Steve Carroll - Nov 99
Dave Potts - Aug 99
History Interview - May 95
Band Interview - Nov 95
Mark Thompson Smith - 1998
Tony O'Hora - March 98
Dennis Stratton - March 98
Chris Troy - March 98
Group conversation - March 98
Bernie Shaw Interview Aug 98
Ho-No-O Tony Interview 98
Rodney Matthew - Jan 99
Horakane Interview Apr 99
Colin Peel Interview - July 99
In The Press
Praying Mantis
Clive Burrs Escape / Stratus
80's Fan Club Newsletters
Live
Tour 1998
1980 Line-up Reunion
1999 Party
Wacken 2000
The
Gods 2000
Picture Gallery
Index
Hard
Rock Hell II, 2008
British Steel III 2008
Headbanger's
Open Air 2008
Bang
Your Head 2007
Headbangers Open Air 2006
The
Astoria 2005
Various 1980 Pictures
The Marquee 1982
Reading 82
Promo Tour 98
Ho-No-O Photos
Odds And Ends
Full 98 Tour Photos
Mantis Cup 98
Epsom Warm Up Gig 98
1980 Line-up Reunion
Other Sites
Help Wanted
About us
Site Owner
Praying Mantis
Jon Hinchliffe
Mike Freeland Interview – 23 June 2007
While in Germany for the Bang Your Head
festival Mike Freeland (MF)
took time to explain
to Jon Hinchliffe (JH) how he came to
be the new vocalist for Praying Mantis.
JH – Can you run me through the bands you have played
with prior to “Praying Mantis”?
MF – Yes sure. At one point I was in a band called “More”
and that curiously is a big part of why I am now in Praying Mantis.
JH – Shall we start at the very beginning? Have you
always wanted to sing?
MF – No I always wanted to be lead guitarist but I just
could not understand how to play guitar. I still wanted to be in a rock band so
I then decided “Oh I will be a singer”
Photo By Ger Lemmens
JH – Had you tried singing before then?
MF – No and I was bad. I was absolutely awful.
JH – So how did you realise you could actually sing?
MF – The first band I joined,
“Jewel”, had a drummer called Pete Bignall and at one
point he turned round to me and said “The guys are
progressing and you are not. The guys want to sack you. Get some singing lessons
or they are going to sack you. You are an OK singer but you are not progressing”
So I took his advice and went to a rather expensive opera teacher and I spent
years learning with him. When I joined “More” I went back to him again. He asked
me if I wanted to be a singer or to learn opera. I said I wanted to be a singer
and he took me all through everything there was to learn to be a singer. He then
turned around and said we have done all that we can do so why not give opera a
go. And he eventually had me singing “Nessun Dorma” which was the big world cup
theme. He would be behind
the piano and I would do “Maria” from “Westside Story”. We also
did “Music of the Night” from “Phantom of the Opera”, which I love as a song.
This was a big one because it starts so low and it gradually builds you up until
you are really hitting some top notes. That was my favourite song. “Maria” from
“Westside Story” also starts down low and builds up and they are great songs to
learn and to build your vocals up with.
JH – What was the first band you joined?
MF – My first band was a covers band called Freeloader. I
was quite late starting really. I was originally planning on being a
professional football (soccer) player. I was a damned
good footballer until a bad tackle destroyed my knee forever and I stopped
playing. I didn’t start singing until I was about 18 and that would have been in
about 1981. Before then I was a devoted footballer. I played Saturday’s and I
played Sundays. I guess you could say I am a person that wanted to become famous
for something. I used to play defender and I was player of the season for
several years and then because of my speed and my left foot they decided to put
me on the left wing. It worked well and in the end what used to happen was the
right winger used to attack and I started scoring goals and I was in line for
being top goal scorer when I got my injury and that was that. So I moved on to
singing.
My older brother had loads of albums that are now considered
classics but he bought them on release. In those days they were new albums by
young bands like Led Zeppelin. He was like a kid buying stuff at the start of
heavy rock and I had access to this huge collection of albums. So even when I
was 13 and a devoted footballer I was listening to bands like Deep Purple, Led
Zeppelin, Atomic Rooster. My dad wanted me to be a drummer and he was willing to
buy me a kit but my brother took me to see the Moody Blues at the Hammersmith
Odeon and I decided I would rather be a Justin Hayward. I still had no desire to
be in a band but once the football was over that was my inspiration and believe
it or not joining Jewel my first serious band links me to Praying Mantis now.
But also it linked me to “More”. It is really weird.
Why did what happened to me in 1981 snowball to what is
happening to me now?
At 18 my football was over and I had a big desire to be a
singer in a rock band. I had been in a cover band called Freeloader for a while
and then I replied to an advert for “Jewel” and in this band was Pete Bignall on
drums. He was also a roadie for Bruce Bisland (later Praying
Mantis’ drummer) in “Wildfire”. Also in “Wildfire” was Paul Mario Day on
lead
vocals. He was an awesome singer. We did a few gigs as
“Jewel” and then we became a band called “Traitor”. I got to know Bruce Bisland
and Bruce eventually played for “The Sweet” and “Praying Mantis”. I then went on
to a band called “Axon IV” which was a very serious band and almost got signed.
I did a lot of song writing with them. After “Axon IV” I was also in a kind of
son of “Axon IV” called “Hassle Factor”. I then joined “Brian
Connolly’s Sweet” for about a year.
JH – Why did you join “Brian Connolly’s Sweet” when Brian
was the lead singer?
MF – Because at that point I could sing the ultimate high
notes and I was a keyboard player. Pete Bignall who is the root man here said “I
can get you in the band because Brian wants to sound like the old ‘Sweet’”. So
when I joined I did really high harmonies and keyboards. I did that for less
than a year though.
Photo By Ger Lemmens
JH – Why did that stop?
MF - “Axon IV” had split up and I had brought in the “Axon
IV” guitarist to play for “BC Sweet” and he didn’t like it. He felt it was like
playing in a covers band even though I said “but it is the Sweet”. So anyway he
left and Brian brought in another guitarist he knew from
Birmingham. The guitarist then brought a bass player in
and basically the line-up of “BC Sweet” totally disappeared. I left because I
was the keyboard player and they decided they could make more money without a
keyboard player. After that there was a whole bunch of us that had played in
“The Sweet”. Pete Bignall had been in “the Sweet” too and he, I and the others
decided to form a cover band called “The Sweetshop Boys”. This was because
“Paddy Goes To Holyhead” and then the “Wondering Crutchless” had been doing so
well. We then supported the “Crutchless” which featured Tino. This was around
1988/1989. Every Sunday we were down the Fulham King’s Head doing a double
whammy of “The Sweetshop Boys” followed by the “Crutchless”.
After that “Axon IV” reformed for a short while and then I
joined “More”. I got a phone call from one guy saying that “More”, quite a
famous band, were looking for a vocalist so give them a shout. I got the job and
they gave me some old songs to learn from their back catalogue. On these I
recognised a voice and it was Paul Mario Day the ex-singer of “Wildfire”. I said
“Is that Paul Mario Day?” and Kenny Cox said “Yes he was my last vocalist was
Paul Mario Day.” I was stunned so now I was replacing the singer I used to
support.
I did that for a short while. It got very, very close to a
deal. EMI Germany wanted to sign “More” for an album and I had fans coming up
and saying “you are by far the best singer ‘More’ has had” so I had the thumbs
up from the fans but then Kenny Cox had multiple strokes.
Kenny could no longer play guitar and there was no “More” without Kenny Cox.
Going back in time a bit, at
one point, I told Tino’s then girlfriend but future wife
that I would like a few cracks at joining “Praying Mantis”. However back in the
80’s I wasn’t as good a singer. It was joining “More” that made me rehearse and
rehearse. I went back to my singing teacher and I really pounded myself. So when
Mantis kicked back in, in the 80’s, I wasn’t good enough to do it.
When Kenny left “More” the bass player tried to continue it
for a while but it didn’t work and then we formed a band called “Dangerous
Breed”. Why it was called that I don’t know. I hate the name and I always have
done. I had a friend who knew Chris Tsangarides the big producer of Thin Lizzy
(He also produced Mantis’s “Forever In Time”). With him we recorded a Demo and
then in January 2006 I went down to “The Cartoon” in Croydon and I saw “Paddy
Goes To Holyhead” who I hadn’t seen in years. My friend Danny Burraway who has
been in a few bands with me mentioned to Tino that I had been recording with
Chris Tsangarides. Tino asked to have a listen saying “Mantis” had also recorded
with Chris. So I sent Tino a CD and it is a lot more metal than “Praying
Mantis”. He then gave me a call and he said “I don’t like what you write” which
is cool “But do you fancy coming out to Germany and
singing a gig for ‘Praying Mantis’”. I said “Yes of course”. So I did the gig
and bearing in mind I wanted to join “Praying Mantis” back in the 1980’s, I was
then nervous as to how I had been received by the band and the fans.
We played fourth from last on the Saturday so we had a good
slot and then on the Sunday Chris started talking about the next album. He
enquired if I would be up for it. I said “Of course I would”.
That therefore brings us to today. Chris has sent me some
music, some of which he had written words for and a
couple which he hadn’t. I demoed the lyrics Chris had and then Chris suggested I
write something over the music which didn’t have lyrics. From that I have a
couple of tracks one of which Chris is really pleased with.
That is called “The Wolf Behind Your Eyes”. We had considered performing that
track yesterday at the “Bang Your Head” Festival. But because Andy Burgess and I
were both learning stuff it became too much for us to then learn a completely
new song that had only just been written so it didn’t happen on this occasion.
JH – What did you do in the 90’s then?
MF – After “More” I played in a band called “Nemesis” and
that has a link as well actually because Bernie Shaw who used to sing for
“Praying Mantis” and is now with “Uriah Heep” has also done some stuff with Dave
John Ross who was in “Nemesis”. So all through my singing life there have been
links with “Praying Mantis”.
JH – When we were chatting before you said there were 5
new “Praying Mantis” tracks written?
MF – Yes they are “Touch The Rainbow”, “Witch Hunt”, “I
Cried”, “Fallen Angel” and “Wolf Behind Your Eyes”. These are all demoed to
different levels but they all have Chris playing keyboards
and simulated bass and a drum machine. We have then layered vocals on top. Out
of those it looks like “The Wolf Behind Your Eyes” is going to be a real killer.
I wrote some verses and a chorus at the time we were rehearsing for yesterday's
concert so it was bad timing really but Chris instantly picked up on the
chorus. I wrote it in a way in which we can layer the vocals
and there are tons of vocal harmonies available.
My favourite is another track I have co-written called
“Fallen Angel”. I am a “Goth” at heart and Chris’s music on this particular
piece pleased me because it is so gothic and dark.
“I cried” is a bit of a ballad but well scrummy.
“Touch The Rainbow” I didn’t actually like at first because
I was recording vocals of Chris’s synthesizer stuff. However we jammed it at
rehearsals for last nights gig and it is now “Oh I get it. Yeah” and now I
understand it I realise how good it is. “Touch The Rainbow” is actually a damned
good song but I didn’t know because I sang it over keyboards. Again we
considered playing this song here in Germany.
Photo By Ger Lemmens
JH – So have you written for other bands?
MF – Yes all of them apart for the cover bands. In
“Sweetshop Boys” we did Whitesnake covers and Sweet covers. But every serious
band I have been in I have written for. With “More”, I wrote for “More”, I
demoed for “More” and there was interest from EMI Germany. It was just
unfortunate and sad about Kenny Cox. I can’t be angry about it. It was just one
of those things. So I have written from the word go.
JH – So do you write just lyrics and vocal lines or do
you write whole songs?
MF- I am used to guys giving me some sort of musical idea.
It’s like Chris. Chris is a super writer. He will have pieces of music and it is
like “I have got this idea and this is what it is. Can you think of a song to
write over the top of it?” and this is how I have always written. All of the
bands I have written for have come up with a riff or something and I have taken
it away and written a chorus or something over it. Chris will write a piece of
music and it is not a finished song it is just bits and pieces and he will say
there is a verse here, a chorus here and bridge there and he will repeat it a
few times and this will be what he presents as his idea. That’s how I like
working. Someone gives me some ideas and I will sit down and start writing some
melodies and a chorus. The weird thing about “The Wolf Behind Your Eyes” is for
a part of that song Chris had an idea and I turned up to his place with my ideas
and for that section I had come up with exactly the same idea.
JH – And the five songs are currently purely Cubase demos
with vocals over the top? There are no guitars on these songs at present?
MF – That is right. Actually there are six songs because I
have one of my old songs. It was a song called “Restless Heart”. I told Chris I
had a song which had this melody and these lyrics but the rest of it had been
written by other people. So I said to Chris Troy if we want to use it the
backing has got to be written again and he was eager for
the challenge. It was originally on the demo I did with Chris Tsangarides. All
the new songs are demoed as you say except “Restless Heart” and that is because
Chris is currently rearranging the music. The vocal line is all written so he is
just writing the music under the melodies. They are damned
good songs. “I cried” is really cool but I also like
“Fallen Angel” and “Touch The Rainbow”. “Touch The Rainbow” being the song I
didn’t quite get when I was recording because that was a song that Chris had
written musically and vocally and where I just sang the lines as Chris and Tino
told me. I didn’t get the full picture until we actually jammed it in the
rehearsals for this gig. It goes a quite a pace. The drums are hacking away. All
of a sudden it just fell into place and I realised how good the track was.
JH – What is the biggest audience you have sung to before
Mantis?
MF – About 400 or 500. Last year at the Headbangers Ball
here in Germany
was the biggest gig I had played until yesterday. Yesterday was by far the
biggest gig on the biggest stage I have ever played and I have to say I
absolutely loved it. I absolutely went nuts. I was like
a kid in a big playground. I feel 100 foot stages like yesterday are where
“Praying Mantis” belong. They all rose to the occasion and the music is great.
Andy who has only been in the band for 6 weeks was brilliant. He was so cool and
played perfectly. The band line-up at the moment is fantastic. Everyone on that
stage yesterday just shone and the music is built for a bigger stage.
I know it sounds gushy but I have become a fan of the band
because of the songs I have had to learn in order to sing them. I have a whole
load of other “Praying Mantis” songs on my Ipod and they are well crafted songs
with good hook lines and good dual guitar harmonies and it is so frustrating
that they aren’t as big as bands like “Iron Maiden”
The current line-up is really good. Chris said he really
hopes this line-up will last. Andy has a great guitar sound and it really
complements Tino’s sound while being very distinctive. Benjy is a fabulous
drummer and so for me even if I wasn’t in the band and I saw the line-up it is a
cracking band. There are no famous faces so it is not a circus with ex-members
of this band or that. It is the Troy
brothers. It is their band and they have got a band that is purely a line up of
guys that want to do the songs. Andy has ties with famous people and we have all
done a bit but there are no “ex-people”. It is Tino and Chris and they are
Praying Mantis and they have got a bunch of guys that have done the rounds and
now they are working hard writing for a new album. It is a band with a lot of
enthusiasm and we now have to finish writing some songs and see what happens
with the fans.
Photo by Eddy Meuwese