Resume Builders
Resume Builders
What Works for Business
TODAY'S FEATURE
Service of Rotary Global History Fellowship
By Dorris Cole
A resume is the single most important document that can fetch you the right job you are looking for. It helps you to clear the first stage of selection and move on to the next stages of technical and personal interview. Any potential employer makes an assessment of you and your skills through your resume. So, it is absolutely important that your resume is attractive and above everything contains the facts about your education, skills and past employment.
Navigation
Resume Builders
Resume Builder
How to do a Resume
Service of Rotary Global History Fellowship
This is the page where our research project began. On Wednesday 11 October 2000, Jack M. B. Selway, then a member of Rotary Club of Pueblo, CO #43, received a list of the first 50 Rotary clubs. This list was faxed to Selway by RI staff member, Joaquín Mejía. It was the only list which could be found and was from an old fashioned typewriter. (seen on the left) Within a few days Selway had created a page for each club telling where they were located, when they met, maybe something about their communities. Then Founder Selway had the thought that perhaps their histories might be of some interest...  From then on, volunteer Rotarians around the world worked on hundreds of projects:
Stories about all the presidents, first clubs of every country, early clubs of every continent, the philosophy of Rotary, the story of Women and Rotary and the list goes on. Within a few weeks of our founding the project became "Rotary First Fifty" with the authorized domain of www.rotaryfirstfifty.org still used to reach this page.
Here you can learn about the first nine years. From 1905 until 1914 -- 100 Rotary clubs joined together to form this marvelous organization. By studying these clubs, you'll find common goals, lasting values, traditions, abilities to adapt and great Rotarians.
What is remarkable is that these 100 clubs are "the" original "First 100 Clubs" of Rotary. Not one of them failed. They are in five countries. They've weathered two world wars. Some had war in their streets and there were awful financial times. They are still here.  Enjoy meeting them as we continue to discover them ourselves.
One of the objectives Rotary Global History was to cover the history of Rotary's early years. We chose the "First 100 Clubs" and were authorized to use www.rotaryfirst100.org,  as a number during the centennial of Rotary International. For reasons satisfied by the Four Way Test, we added five clubs, all of which could have been number one-hundred. We also added eight clubs mentioned in the "1905-1948" appendix found in the first edition of "My Road to Rotary" by Paul P. Harris and published by A. Kroch and Son. The result is a study of one-hundred and thirteen clubs which cover the entire Rotary life of Rotary's founder Paul Harris.
Historians, around the world, continue to maintain and improve this archive of Rotary's history.