Artistopia
Follow us :
Artistopia
BLOG
How to Promote Your Music Online
February 25 , 2018
Comment : 0
As a musician you want your work to be heard and appreciated.  The internet is a great way to reach a larger audience than you would by just gigging locally.  Below, we present a few ways to improve your online presence and get your work noticed.
While it certainly hasn’t ever been as easy to promote your music as it is today, thanks to the internet and technology in general, the effortless ability to promote and publish your music online has been a bit of a double edged sword.
Sure, it takes next to nothing to post your music on online and start pushing traffic to your channel – but no one else is facing barriers or obstacles to share their music, either. This is turned the music world into its most competitive form ever, and you have to be really smart, really strategic, and really savvy about how to promote your music online if you’re going to have any success at all.
Here are some tips and tricks to help you hit it out of the park!
Set Up A Website RIGHT NOW
You cannot afford NOT to have a website up and running today if you’re serious about exposing as many people as possible to your music.
Not only are self hosted website options less expensive today than they have ever been before, but there’s also more technology, more tools, and more opportunities to promote your music with a website today that really makes the process as drop-dead simple as it could be.  Starting a blog for income is a good side gig, as well as a good way to promote your work.
Without a website, you’re losing a lot of visibility that other musicians are taking advantage of. Every moment that goes by without you having a website up and running is costing you a world of exposure you might not ever be able to get back.
Set up your website TODAY!
Get on YouTube RIGHT NOW
YouTube is one of the world’s most frequently visited websites, with hundreds of millions of people spending billions of hours every month watching videos and content on this platform.
Some of the world’s biggest musicians and stars have exploded their popularity on YouTube first and foremost, with the most well-known artist coming from YouTube having to be Justin Bieber.
He posted a video on YouTube, it got noticed by Usher, and the rest is music history. Love him or hate him, he’s one of the most successful musicians of the past decade and isn’t showing any signs of slowing down anytime soon – and it’s all thanks to YouTube.
Best of all, you can use YouTube 100% free of charge while at the same time taking advantage of all the marketing and advertising resources that Google will cover for you. YouTube works its tail off to promote relevant content, and if you are sharing music that’s exciting, interesting, and engaging you’ll have the full weight of this platform behind you when it comes to getting exposure.
Utilize Social Media Every Day
Social media has completely transformed our world in a way that most never could have expected or anticipated before, and you’ll want to use everything that social media has to offer to figure out how to promote your music online.
All of the major social media platforms – Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Snapchat – are incredibly inviting to musicians and artists. They are 100% free to get up and running, really easy to use and intuitive to scale, and if you launch a viral hit on one of these platforms the odds of someone that can help you further your career are pretty solid.
The key to using social media when you’re looking to figure out how to promote your music online, however, is consistency.
You need to be posting on all of your social media accounts with real regularity, building up followers that can come to expect specific releases on specific platforms on specific days of the week. There are a lot of musicians and artists with amazing talent and music that aren’t getting any exposure that they probably should simply because they don’t have the dedication to stick to a posting schedule like this one on social media.
Don’t let that happen to you!
Add Your Music To ALL Of The Online Streaming Services
iTunes, Spotify, Google Music, Amazon Music, and all of the other major streaming services out there give every artist – from the least known musicians to the most well-known international superstars – the opportunity to add their music to their streaming services.
Not only with this help you get a tremendous amount of exposure (millions and millions of people stream music every day with the services, and all of them are always looking for something new), but you’ll also be able to start earning money right out of the gate every single time your songs are played.
You may not end up making Taylor Swift money with your first few tracks that you add to these online platforms, but it’s wonderful to be rewarded for all of your hard work and to have your talent validated receiving any royalty check in the mail just because people are grooving to your music!
Best of all, all of the major streaming services utilize discovery tools that help new artists get recognized when they may not have been recognized otherwise. The best platforms out there are very democratic in how they share and highlight new music from new artists, and if you get an opportunity to be discovered on these platforms you’ll be able to have your songs heard by millions without any heavy lifting on your end.
Collaborate With Other Artists
One of the most effective ways to figure out how to promote your music online is to piggyback off of the success that other artists are already enjoying while at the same time sharing all of your resources together.
Music today is incredibly collaborative, and if you get the opportunity to hitch your wagon to a shooting star – while putting in your own heavy lifting and elbow grease to make your collaboration a success – the sky really is the limit.
Not every collaboration is a wonderful success or smash hit, but when you have everyone pulling in the same direction with you your odds of creating something really special are a lot greater than if you tried to go it alone when unlocking the puzzle that is figuring out how to promote your music online today.
READ MORE
Search for:
Recent Posts
How to Promote Your Music Online
Archives
February 2018
Categories
Music Business