Our Complete LHH Community 2011 NHL Mock Draft* - Lighthouse Hockey
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Lighthouse Hockey homepage
Horizontal - White
Lighthouse Hockey
New York Islanders Schedule, Roster, News, and Rumors | Lighthouse Hockey
Follow Lighthouse Hockey online:
Follow Lighthouse Hockey on Twitter
Follow Lighthouse Hockey on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Lighthouse Hockey main menu
Podcasts
Popular Sections
Betting
Special Sections
Islanders Links
About / Masthead
Community Guidelines
Al Arbour T-Shirts (VintageIceHockey.com)
Isles Buzz merch (VintageIceHockey.com)
DraftKings Nation
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Podcasts
Islanders Anxiety
Weird Islanders: The Podcast!
Islanders Award Winners
Isles Buzz
Lighthouse Lookback
My Favorite Islanders Game
PT Isles
All Podcasts
Popular Sections
Bits o’ Islanders News
Prospect News
Game Recaps
Hockey Editorial
Islanders History
Islanders Analysis
Zeitgeist parodies
Fan Posts
Full Archive
Betting
FanDuel NHL Odds
FanDuel Stanley Cup Odds
NHL Picks and Predictions
Special Sections
Isles Virals
Top 25 Under 25
Islanders Arena in Belmont
The New York Islanders Dynasty
Law & Owners: Special Islanders Unit
John Tavares Free Agency Encyclopedia
Islanders Links
SB Nation Islanders Hub
SB Nation Islanders Schedule
SB Nation Islanders Roster
Yahoo Islanders Depth Chart
Yahoo Islanders Transactions
Yahoo Islanders Injury Report
About / Masthead
Community Guidelines
Al Arbour T-Shirts (VintageIceHockey.com)
Isles Buzz merch (VintageIceHockey.com)
DraftKings Nation
✕
Filed under:
This, That & What-Not
NHL Draft: New York Islanders Coverage
Our Complete LHH Community 2011 NHL Mock Draft*
By
Dominik@LHHockey
Jun 22, 2011,  4:04pm EDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Our Complete LHH Community 2011 NHL Mock Draft*
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
Can you believe the Dane fell to #22?  --No way. No way....
Thanks to everyone who proposed, volunteered and participated in our first-ever Lighthouse Hockey NHL Mock Draft. When it was first suggested in April by mnroy33, I was both intrigued and wary: It sounded like a lot of work, and I'm lazy.
Turns out you all gobbled it up with hardly a hitch and nary a stall. We had ebbs and flows but ultimately hammered it out in 30 days. Hopefully several of you became familiar with the ins and outs of the FanPost feature.
In the end, we had 30 picks that required justification and got us thinking. While it began before the scouting combine -- thus a lot of scouting buzz has come out in the interim -- we have a reasonable sequence to go off of and compare with how things go this weekend in St. Paul. (We'll be comparing this and other mock drafts to the real world once all is said and done.)
Here's the final list with links to who picked whom and why:
1. Edmonton - Anarcurt took the easy route with Ryan Nugent-Hopkins, C.2. Colorado - mnroy33 went smart with Adam Larsson, D.3. Florida - chrismc614 went Swede with Gabriel Landeskog, W.4. New Jersey - nyidangle17 feared no stock-falling and took Sean Couturier, C.5. Long Island - Fabtraption did the Dougie. Hamilton, that is, D.
6. Ottawa - OzzyFan gobbled up the late-riser Jonathan Huberdeau, LW/C.7. Atlantapeg - WebBard goes 3-D with Ryan Murphy, D.8. Columbus - Jones79 grabbed the closet talent Ryan Strome, C.9. Bahston (from Toronto) - Empire39 goes dollars for donuts with Duncan Siemens, D.10. Minnesota - risenrule selected the president of Iran, Mika Zibanejad, C.
11. Colorado (from St. Louis) - mnroy33 channels Nino with Sven Bartschi, RW.12. Carolina - Dominik falls prey to size envy with Jamie Oleksiak, D.13. Calgary - nyislanders93 sings Swede songs with Joel Armia, RW.14. Dallas - metalcoconut mourns Oleksiak, consoles himself with Mark McNeill, C 15. Short Island - MetzFan22 applies Oxy to his Matt Puempel, RW
16. Buffalo - DirtyIsle dogs it with Nathan Beaulieu, D17. Montreal - so does pgat28 with Zach Phillips C18. Chicago - Lee F surely fancies Mark Scheifele, D19. Edmonton - Anarcurt goes Irish with Connor Murphy, D20. Phoenix - Turgeon1992 fears not small size in Rocco Grimaldi, F
21. Ottawa - OzzyFan thinks big with Tyler Biggs, RW22. Anaheim - Dominik betrays Danish tendencies with Nicklas Jensen, RW23. Pittsburgh - kfallon2 consults Mario before taking Joe Morrow, D24. Detroit - IslesOfficial says word to your moms, he came to drop Klefboms, D25. Toronto (from Philadelphia) - Dougtone channels his inner Burke to select Brandon Saad.
26. Washington - Pauly C says is this Russia? This isn't Russia, Alexander Khokhlachev, C.27. Tampa Bay - Keith Quinn went wYld with Boone Jenner, C.28. San Jose - MTBVibe says oui, oui, Phillip Danault, LW.29. Vancouver - Nick (LTBLH) pours salt in the runner-up wound, then heals it with Jonas Brodin, D.30. Toronto (from Boston) - Dougtone gets Superfly with Scott Mayfield, D.
Feedback on how to do this better or differently -- or even add a draft-via-community-poll option -- next year is welcome.
* Lighthouse Hockey Community 2011 NHL Mock Draft sponsored by Austin Milbarge: "We Mock What We Don't Understand"
Most Read
Islanders News: Palmieri calls it like he sees it
This stupid league.
Islanders Gameday: Another wild card foe arrives
The chase continues, but the Blue Jackets aim to stand in the way.
Islanders Anxiety - Episode 327 - You Can’t Kill This Team
Mike and Dan discuss the Islanders’ latest point streak and unlikely reappearance in the Eastern Conference playoff race.
Chorus
FanPosts
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG.
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook