Rugby Football History
RugbyFootballHistory.com
Want to help ?
Origins of RugbyTimelineRegulationEarly HistoryEquipmentCompetitionsLinks
National Rugby Unions | Laws | Scoring | Player Numbering | Player Positions | * | *
Rugby School | Club History | Bloxham's Letter | Split of Union and League | Thomas Hughs | * | *
The Ball | Apparel | * | * | * | * | *
Olympics | Six Nations | Tri-nations | Rugby World Cup | Women's RWC | * | *
Rugby History Links | General Rugby Links | Club History Links | * | * | * | *
subglobal8 link | subglobal8 link | subglobal8 link | subglobal8 link | subglobal8 link | subglobal8 link | subglobal8 link
Introduction/ First International / First Tour / Apartheid/ SARFU
The History of South African Rugby
Home Origins of Rugby   Timeline Rugby at War  Programmes
Regulation National Rugby Unions  Laws  Scoring Numbering Positions
Early History      Rugby School  Club History  Bloxam's Letter  Split of Union & League  William Webb Ellis   Thomas Hughes  Charles Monro
Equipment        The ball  Apparel
Competitions Olympics 6 Nations  Tri-Nations Rugby Championship Rugby World Cup  Women's RWC  Women's RWC 7s Women's 6Nations  Anglo-Welsh Cup  SuperRugby  County Championship  Trophies
All Blacks  Barbarians Canada  British & Irish Lions  Ireland  Scotland  Springboks  USA  Wales  Wallabies
Introduction of Rugby  Football to SA
The Dutch began to settle in the Southern tip of Africa from 1652 but it was only with the arrival of  permanent British control in 1806 that the economy began to prosper and  cultural and political power grew and extended its influence into the region.  As elsewhere in the British Empire a wide  range of British cultural practices were introduced during the mid 19th century  including sports like football and cricket.
The Reverend George Ogilvie ('Gog'), born in 1826 in  Wiltshire, England, is credited with introducing football to South Africa,  following his appointment as Headmaster of the Diocesan College at Rondenbosch,  near Cape Town in 1861 and remained until 1885. Actually, the game he taught was the Winchester  football variety, a game he had learned at his former ‘alma mater’, the  well-known Hampshire school, Winchester  College, Hampshire England. Soon, the young gentlemen of Cape Town joined in and the  local press reported a series of football matches between scratch sides  conveniently named ‘Town v Suburbs’, Civil servants v All comers or ‘Home v  Colonial-born’ etc. etc. but the first game took place on 21st August 1862 between the Army and the Civil service.
Circa 1875 Rugby football began to be played in the Cape  colony, though the first club Hamilton RFC formed that year was playing the Winchester game. The  following year two further clubs - the Western Province  and Villagers - were formed. The former adopted the Rugby rules, while the  latter opted for the Winchester  code. Indeed it was Winchester Football that the two leading clubs Hamilton and  Villager started playing against each other in 1876, and the history of  football in South Africa  might have been very different, but for the arrival in Cape   Town in 1878 of William Henry Milton, the former England back.
By the late 1870s, rugby football was very much battling to  survive against Winchester Football and the Western Province  club had ceased to exist due to lack of support, but the arrival in Cape Town  of William H. Milton in 1878 turned the tide in favour of rugby. Milton, who  had played for England  only a few years earlier (in 1874 and 1875), joined the Villagers club and  started playing and preaching the rugby code. By the end of that year the  football playing fraternity in Cape Town had all  but abandoned the Winchester game in favour of  the Rugby football variety. Ten years later,  Milton (later Sir William, the administrator of Southern Rhodesia) represented South Africa at  cricket, though by the time the first British tour arrived in 1891, he had  given up playing rugby.
In 1883 the W.P.R.F.U. organized the first club competition  for a cup, known as the Grand Challenge Cup, also around 1883 the Stellenbosch  club was formed and the young Boers from the farming belt took to it likes  ducks to water.
Around the same time the game began in Cape   Town, started by a number of British regiments and by the end of  1883 Rugby was established right across the coastal belt of the old Cape colony and expanding in popularity. From there it  expanded into Kimberley  where in 1886 Griqualand West Rugby Union was formed. Next it expanded into the  Western Transvaal towns, Klerksdorp and Potchefstroom whilst the Cape Town men introduced it to Pretoria  and Johannesburg. Inter-town matches between Pretoria  and Johannesburg  were being played in 1888 and the following year the Transvaal Rugby Football  Union was formed. Association football had been introduced to Natal  earlier than Rugby and so Rugby took a little  longer to get a foothold. But by 1890 clubs had been formed in  Pietermaritzburg, the capital and headquarters of the British army, and in Durban.
In 1889 the South African Rugby Football Board was  established to link up and govern the various unions. They held their first  tournament the same year ay Kimberley where the  Western province, Transvaal, Griqualand West and  Eastern province competed. The Western province won the tournament and went on  to win the next eight.
Top row: (left to right) A. Richards, T. B. Herold, L. B. Smuts, ?, ?, ?, ?.
Bottom row: H. T. Strungnell, Dan Smith, J. G. Heyneman, ?, R. C. Snedden, E. H. Bisset.
The First International
In 1891 the first British representative team arrived. This  had been negotiated by Mr. J. Richards, a member of a well known Cape Town sporting brotherhood, who had been at the famous  Rugby school, Leys at Cambridge.  Cecil Rhodes, then prime minister of the Cape Colony,  took over the whole financial responsibility.
The team consisted of :
W. E.    Maclagan (captain)
Scottish    International
R. G.    Macmillan
Scottish    International
P. R. Clauss
Scottish    International
W.    Wotherspoon
Scottish    International
R. L. Aston
English    International
W. E. Bromet
English    International
P. F. Hancock
English    International
W. G.    Mitchell
English    International
H. Marshall
Subsequently    won English cap.
R. Thompson
A. Rotherham
Subsequently    won English cap.
E. Bromet
W. A. Lindsay
C. P. Simpson
W. H. Thorman
J. Hammond
W. Jackson
A. A. Surtees
E. Mayfield
J. H. Gould
B. G. Roscoe
T. Whittaker
Edwin Ash
from Richmond, Manager
With such a start studded line-up the South African’s were  not expected to compete well but the whole point of the exercise was to gain  experience and prepare for the future. The British team duly played 19 matches  and won all of them racking up 224 points to 1 (50 goals from 50 tries, 39  tries, 6 dropped goals, 7 penalty goals and 1 goal from mark. Charles  (“Haasie”) Versfeld from the Hamilton club at Cape Town scored the only  try for the visitors (a try being worth 1 point back then). There were three  actual test matches and the combined score of the three tests was only 10 nil  which was a tremendous effort.
The visit was a very sporting affair and the visitors paid  high tribute to the keenness and enthusiasm for the game all over the country  and to the individual merits of several players who they said were clearly of  international standard.
1891 British Isles versus Cape Colony match, the first match of the British Isles tour .
The British captain brought with him a gold cup which had  been a gift from the late Sir Donald Currie, the founder of the Union Castle Steamship  line to South Africa  with instructions to give it to the centre putting up the best game during the  tour. This went to Griqualand West after a game played in Kimberley.  The Griqualand Rugby Union immediately handed this over to the South African  Rugby Board to become a perpetual floating inter-center trophy, now  known as the Currie Cup competition.
It is often disputed who first won the  'Currie Cup' as it's now know:
The first provincial competition took place in 1889 and was won by Western Province before the cup even arrived in South Africa. They have their name on the cup for that year.
Griqualand West were presented with the cup in 1891 after their game against the tourists (there was no provincial tournament that year due to the tour). They have their name on the cup also.
Western Province won the first provincial tournament that was played for the cup itself in 1892 and their name was added to the cup again.
The tour had been a great success and players all over South Africa  learned a lot and the over standard of play improved immensely with in 1 or 2  years.
At the end of their tour Stellenbosch invited them to play a  match in Stellenbosch. This invitation was accepted and on 7 September 1891  Stellenbosch became one of the very few club teams ever to play an  international touring team.
Marthinus Daneel, father of George, and Stellenbosch’s wing  had already crossed the British goal line but instead of placing the ball for a  try; he wanted to be closer to the goalposts. In those days a try counted for  one point and a goal for three points. The British were 2-0 ahead and if  Marthinus could place the ball under the goalposts Stellenbosch would win.
Unfortunately it was Maclaglan himself who got hold of  Daneel and there followed what was called a "maul". A maul then was a  duel between two players in which other players were not allowed to participate.  Depending on who won the ball it would either be placed for a try or placed  behind the dead ball line. Maclaglan won this maul and Stellenbosch’s chance of  winning was lost.
In 1896 the second British team visited and this time in the  final match of the tour South Africa  beat them 5 – 0 at Cape Town to record South Africa’s  first international victory.
Also in 1896 Cecil John Rhodes presented a trophy to the South African Coloured Rugby Football Board (SACRFB) for their domestic competition. It was first played for in Kimberley in 1898 when Western Province won.
The Rhodes Cup
In 1903 the British came again and this time they  could only win 11 matches, lost 8 and drew 3.
Until the last test of the1903 series, the South African  team donned either white jerseys or jerseys in the colours of the Union/club  hosting the match and had no badge on their jerseys and, in fact, white is even  today South Africa’s  alternative kit. However, before the third and final test at Newlands the then  South African captain Barry H. Heatlie was asked by an unnamed official to  consider changing the habit, with the view of giving South Africa a permanent jersey. Heatley, one of the greats of South Africa’s pioneering period,  recalled the moment green was adopted as the jersey colour: “At the time I had  on hand a supply of dark green jerseys, the colours of the defunct Old  Diocesan’s Club. It was decided to wear those jerseys at Newlands, and ever  since South African fifteens have been clad in green.”
The First Tour
In 1905 the famous New Zealanders made their tour  of the mother country with tremendous success and this spurred the South  Africans to do the same so in 1906 the first International tour to the United Kingdom  was organized with the team captained by Paul Roos and vice-captained by H. J. Carolin. Regarding the Springbok  badge, the manager of the 1906 tour John. Cecil “Daddy” Carden, observed that it  existed when the team left South    Africa. In a letter to the author of the  history of SA Rugby Ivor Difford, Carden quoted an article published by the  London Daily Mail on September 20, 1906, as follows: “The team’s colours will  be myrtle green jerseys with gold collar. They would wear dark blue shorts and  dark blue stockings and the jersey would have been embroidered in mouse-coloured  silk on the left breast a springbok, a small African antelope…”
The name Springboks, an anglicised version of the  Afrikaans word Springbokken, was the brainchild of skipper Roos, vice-captain  Carolin and manager Carden, as the latter recalled: “No uniforms or blazers had  been provided and we were a motley turn-out at practice at Richmond. That  evening, I spoke to Roos and Carolin and pointed out that the witty London  Press would invent some funny name for us, if we did not invent one ourselves.  We thereupon agreed to call ourselves ‘Springboks’, and to tell pressmen that  we desired to be so named… I at once ordered the dark green, gold-edged blazers  and still have the first Springbok pocket badge that was made”.
Note: 1780 - Eberhard August Wilhelm Von Zimmerman, a German geographer and zoologist   first scientifically classifies the ANTIDORCAS MARSUPIALIS, a small common   gazelle of South Africa commonly known as the SPRINGBOK - now the emblem and   name of the South African national rugby union team
The results speak for themselves:
Played
Won
Lost
Drawn
For
Against
28
25
2
1
533
79
Text Match
Result
For
Against
South Africa v Scotland
Lost
0
6
South Africa v Ireland
Won
15
12
South Africa v Wales
Won
11
0
South Africa v England
Drawn
3
3
The first match was in Northampton  against Eastern Counties and was won easily by the Springboks after an  exhibition of running rugby brought them nine tries. In the second match in  Leicester, the visitors scored five tries and two drop goals to defeat a powerful  Midlands team captained by VH Cartwright, 29 -  0, centre S.C de Melker giving an exhibition of centre three-quarter play. It  was also the match, in which the visitors won the heart of the public.
The tour progressed in similar fashion, though the North and Devon  in England and Newport and Glamorgan  County in Wales gave the visitors a warning  of things to come. The mystery of the ‘loose head’ in the scrum, effectively  employed by the Welsh, was solved by Carolin and WA Millar, who, although not  among those originally selected, made the tour as a replacement for B. P.  Mosenthal. The Springbok pack practiced the ‘loose head’ in the dining room of  the Gloucester Arms Hotel and, as a result, their forwards came to enjoy a  wealth of possession, which Kriege, Loubster, Stegman and the rest of the backs  manufactured into tries. Matches against universities, won with comparative  ease by the visitors, were followed by the first foray into Scotland, against  the South in Hawick; the fast Springbok backs prevailed against the hard  Scottish pack, winning by 32-5 in what was a good springboard for the weekend  test against the Scots, the already the sixteenth match of the tour
It was time for Scotland,  who had led for most of the match against the 1905 All Blacks only to lose 12-7  in the final stages in Inverleith, to do themselves justice. In the Glasgow  match, played at the soccer stadium Hampden Park, there was neither the frost  nor the fog that affected the game against New Zealand the previous year and,  in the event, with the Scottish forwards led by ‘Darkie’ Bedell-Sivright and JC  MacCallum dominant, the match was decided by the swift movements of two back  divisions which ‘surpassed themselves in speed, skill and deft handling’, as a  contemporary observer put it, that made the day.
K. G.  McLeod, who had made  his international debut the previous year as a 17-year old, scored a memorable  try following a cross-kick by P Monro. A further try by A. B. H. L. Purves  following a Scottish forward rush dealt the mortal blow to the gallant  Springboks, who were decimated by injury. Already without injured skipper Roos,  the South Africans lost Brink, Mare and then Marsberg during the match but  battled bravely until the end against the rampant Scots.
A return to winning ways against North of Scotland, with only four  of the players from the test side in action, was followed by the Irish test.  With Paul Roos back in the side - and again wearing white to avoid a clash with  the Irish jerseys - the Springboks played like men possessed against a strong  Irish side led by the legendary Basil Maclear. The Springboks won 12-3 and  after a game against Dublin University returned to the UK mainland for the Welsh test.
As the conquerors of the All Blacks the previous year and  welcoming back the great Gwyn Nicholls, Wales were expected to win. But on  the day it was the Springboks back division boasting Krige, Loubster, Joubert  and Marsberg that dominated to inflict a devastating 11-0 defeat on the  incredulous Welsh. The silence at the end of the game in Swansea had ‘almost material consistency’,  noted an eye witness. “We were a very happy band in Swansea that night,” noted Carolin.
The last test against England,  a week later at Crystal   Palace ended in a 3-3  draw on a heavy, greasy field that naturally deprived the South African backs  of their expected supremacy. The Springboks scored in the first half through  Millar and England  leveled the score in the second half, through Freddy Brooks, a Rhodesian who  should probably have played for the South Africans. A few more matches were  played, including a second defeat, 17-0 at the hands of Cardiff  in ankle deep mud, before the team went over to Paris for an unofficial test against the  French and in a one-sided encounter the Springboks demolished the French XV 55-6,  to end a most satisfying tour in style.
Some interesting points:
1. The game against Scotland was in sodden conditions  and the South African’s complained about the Scottish forwards who would rather  kick the man than the ball (4 South African players had to leave the field due  to injuries).
2. The Welsh team had been the only team to beat the All blacks  the year before.
3. England’s  try was scored by a Rhodesian F. G. Brooks who was on holiday in England and who was some months short of his  residential qualifications preventing him from being picked for South Africa  (then 5 years). He was born in India,  Educated at Bedford Grammar school in England. He went on to play for South Africa  and was a fine wing three-quarters for them.
The Springboks followed this success with a tour in 1912-13 during which they defeated Scotland, Ireland, Wales, France and England at Twickenham (which was England's first defeat there since it opened in 1909.
The Springboks went from strength to strength and did not lose any home test match series until 1974 and also won or drew all of their series of tests  from 1903 to 1956.
Apartheid
No history of South African Rugby would be complete without mention of apartheid and although some would suggest that there should be a seperation between sport and politics they are inextricably linked.
As mentioned earlier, South Africa was colonized by the English and Dutch in the seventeenth   century. English domination of the Dutch descendents (known as Boers or   Afrikaners) resulted in the Dutch establishing the new colonies of Orange Free   State and Transvaal. The discovery of diamonds in these lands around 1900   resulted in an English invasion which sparked the Boer War. Following   independence from England, an uneasy power-sharing between the two groups held   sway until the 1940's, when the Afrikaner National Party was able to gain a   strong majority. Strategists in the National Party invented apartheid as a means   to cement their control over the economic and social system. Initially, aim of   the apartheid was to maintain white domination while extending racial   separation. Starting in the 60's, a plan of "Grand Apartheid'' was executed,   emphasizing territorial separation and police repression.
With the enactment of apartheid laws in 1948, racial discrimination was   institutionalized. Race laws touched every aspect of social life, including a   prohibition of marriage between non-whites and whites, and the sanctioning of   "white-only'' jobs. In 1950, the Population Registration Act required that all   South Africans be racially classified into one of three categories: white, black   (African), or colored (of mixed decent). The coloured category included major   subgroups of Indians and Asians. Classification into these categories was based   on appearance, social acceptance, and descent. For example, a white person was   defined as "in appearance obviously a white person or generally accepted as a   white person.'' A person could not be considered white if one of his or her   parents were non-white. The determination that a person was "obviously white''   would take into account "his habits, education, and speech and deportment and   demeanor.'' A black person would be of or accepted as a member of an African   tribe or race, and a colored person is one that is not black or white. The   Department of Home Affairs (a government bureau) was responsible for the   classification of the citizenry. Non-compliance with the race laws were dealt   with harshly. All blacks were required to carry "pass books'' containing   fingerprints, photo and information on access to non-black areas.
The practice of apartheid existed in South Africa for more than   forty years and came to an end when Nelson Mandela (see also African National Congress) was elected   president in 1994.
During the apartheid era racially segregated sport was one of the most divisive issues. The rugby team in particular became synonymous with apartheid. Rugby was a   British public school invention, played by the cream of colonial Anglo Saxon   society. But in South Africa, it was Afrikaners who dominated the sport, and for   them it was more than a game – it was an expression of resurgent Afrikaner   nationalism, an opportunity for mauling, rucking, physical revenge against an   old political foe. To black South Africans, rugby had a different meaning: it   was a white man’s game, and a brutally hard one at that, the sport of the   apartheid police, the apartheid army, and the apartheid government. The theme   was taken up across the world. Each time a South African rugby team ventured   abroad, it had to run a gauntlet of booing, egg-flinging protesters.
This is not to say that non-whites didn't play rugby, indeed, white missionaries used sport as a way to encourage 'respectibility' in the emerging non-white middle class during the early 19th century. This included Cricket, Tennis, Croquet, Soccer and of course Rugby. In fact Rugby dominated the non-white sports scene in places like the Cape colony and the Eastern Cape in particular through to the late 1960s but rugby organisation (Western province coloured rugby union was founded in 1886 and the South African Coloured Rugby Board (SACRB) was founded in 1896) and teams were kept segregated with discrimination against black and coloured players and little government funding.
In 1919 New Zealand toured South Africa, however, the SARFB stipulated that no players with Maori blood should be included in the side. An All Black of West Indian extraction, Ranji Wilson, was sent home as a result.
The Springboks themselves went on tour to Australia and New Zealand in 1921. There were three tests played against New Zealand with NZ winning the first, SA winning the second and the forth drawn to tie the series.
The British Isles toured SA in 1924, this was the first time they were called the Lions. The series was tied with the Lions winning 9 games and losing 9 games.
The All Blacks returned in 1928 and once again the series was drawn and once again the Maories were left behind. In fact they were left out of the 1949 and 1960 sides too but objections were beginning to grow.
Rugby was growing in popularity amongst coloured communities and in 1935 the South African Bantu Rugby Board was founded with J M Dippa as president and Hayley Plaatue of Kimberley as secretary.
In 1939 the SACRB chose a team to go on an internal tour. The team played 9 matches and lost just two. This touring team was called the Springboks. Its colours were green and gold and its blazer badge carried a leaping springbok with the words '1st National Team 1939'. The second world war dashed the SACRB's hopes of sending the team abroad.
Schools rugby with annual tournaments was an important feature of the game amongst the black players. The first of the annual inter-schools tournaments was played in 1943 with Healdtown beeting the Welsh in the final. The last tournament was won by Langa High school in 1964.
Not only was there separation between coloured and white rugby during the aparteid era, but there were also conflicting interests amongst the controlling black and coloured bodies. In 1959 there was a massive split in the SACRB when the Western Province League (the largest part of SACRB) opted to break away from the SACRB and form the South African Rugby Football Federation under Charles Loriston. Each body sent representatives to the RFUs centenary celebrations in 1971.
From 1960 international criticism of apartheid grew steeply in the wake of "The Wind of Change" speech by the British Prime Minister, Macmillan, and the Sharpeville massacre near Johannesburg in South Africa. From then onward, the Springboks, perceived as prominent representatives of apartheid South Africa, were increasingly internationally isolated.
The South African Coloured Rugby Board became the South African Rugby Union in 1966.
Attitudes in South Africa's rugby hierarchy were beginning to welcome non-white players and coloured teams began to face white sides at the end of the 1970s, with Tobias   and Avril Williams progressing through the ranks to become the first non-whites   to play for South Africa. Tobias recalls Doctor Danie Craven, the then head of South African rugby,   praising the non-white sides, telling them, "you guys are on the right track".
The SARFF also sent a team to tour the UK and Holland in 1971 much to the disapproval of the SARU and those who beleived that society should be normalized before sport was. Then several African clubs, previously affiliated to the SAARB crossed over to the SARU.
Coming shortly after the Soweto riots, the 1976 All Blacks tour of South Africa attracted international condemnation and 28 countries boycotted the 1976 Summer Olympics in protest. The following year, the Commonwealth signed the' Gleneagles Agreement', which discouraged any sporting contact with South Africa.
A planned 1979 Springbok tour of France was stopped by the French government, which announced that it was inappropriate for South African teams to tour France.
Fours Unions existed in 1981
SARFB
White Players
SARU
Non-racial Mixed
SARA
Black African
SARFF
Coloured Players
Errol Tobias
South Africa then toured New Zealand in defiance of the Gleneagles Agreement but something rather special happened, Errol Tobias, a black man, was selected to play for the Springboks and became  the first non-white player in the history of the Springboks to win a cap. His selection was opposed by sections of the white community but also by sections of the non-white community who thought he should not turn out for a sport so associated with the apartheid regime.
Tobias recalls "I knew there were people who were saying that, but I decided that I was   going to show South African people that all men are born equal. I wanted to show them that colour doesn't matter - if you have got the   skills then you should play for your country. My goal was to show the country and the rest of the world that we had black   players who were equally as good if not better than the whites, and that if you   are good enough you should play."
Tobias went on to gain 6 caps and 22 test points, between 1981 and 1984.
Banned from international competition
After the 1981 Springbok tour of New Zealand, South Africa was banned by the International Rugby Board from international competition until such time as apartheid ended and while racial segregation and persecution continued for a good ten years   after his debut, his appearence in the green and gold played a part in   broadening the horizons of the rugby public.
By the end of the 1980s, South Africa was at the receiving end of all number   of sanctions, ranging from economic to diplomatic. But in a country that is fiercely proud of its prowess on the field of play,   the sporting embargo was perhaps the most effective. In between 1984 and 1992, the national team played ten Test matches, missing   out on two World Cups and the proposed Lions tour of 1986.
On the 23rd of March 1992 the non-racial South African Rugby Union (SARU) and the South African Rugby Board (SARB) merged to form the South African Rugby Football Union (SARFU).
Released After 27 years in jail, Nelson Mandela was subsequently elected President of South Africa and had to face the challenge to "balance black aspirations with white fears", as racial tensions from the apartheid era had not completely disappeared. He attended a game of the Springboks. Mandela recognized that the blacks in the stadium cheered against their home squad, as the Springboks represent prejudice and apartheid in their minds. Mandela asked the newly formed and black-dominated South African Sports Committee to support the Springboks. He then met with the captain of the Springboks rugby team, François Pienaar, and implied that a Springboks victory in the World Cup will unite and inspire the nation.
Winning the World Cup
Sport, like no other South African institution, has shown it has the power to   heal old wounds. When the Springboks, won the Rugby   World Cup on its home turf in 1995, Nelson Mandela donned the No 6 shirt of the   team's captain - Francois Pienaar, a white Afrikaner – and the two embraced in a   spontaneous gesture of racial reconciliation which melted hearts around the   world. A single moment, and 400 years of colonial strife and bitterness … suddenly   seemed so petty.
Mandela and Francois Pienaar after the 1995 World Cup win
That is not to say everything was resolved and even in the RWC winning squad the unity was somewhat patchy. However things are changing in the new South Africa and the South African   Rugby Football Union has been working hard to make rugby the game of all South   Africans, mainly through an active development programme throughout the country. At provincial age-group levels, players of colour are playing an increasingly   prominent role as the development programme.
The 1995 RWC winning squad included another ground breaking black player, Chester Williams.
The South African Rugby Football Union changed its name in 2005 to the current South African Rugby Union.
SARFU (courtesy of the SARFU)
The South  African Rugby Football Union (SARFU) is the custodian of the Game of rugby in South Africa.  SARFU was established in 1992 following the unification of the former SA Rugby  Board (SARB) and SA Rugby Union (SARU), paving the way for South Africa’s readmission to the  international arena after eight years of isolation.
SARFU has as  its members the 14 Provincial Unions - the Blue Bulls (Pretoria),  Boland (Wellington), Border (East London), Eastern Province  (Port Elizabeth), Falcons (Springs), Free State (Bloemfontein),  Golden Lions (Gauteng), Griffons (Welkom),  Griqualand West (Kimberley), Leopards  (Potchefstroom), Mpumalanga (Witbank), Natal (Durban), South  Western Districts (George) and Western  Province (Cape Town).
The unified  SARFU was founded on three core principles:
The establishment of a       non-racial, non-political and democratic rugby community, both on and off       the field to ensure the leveling of the playing fields at all levels.
The development of       infrastructure and human resources potential in order to uplift the game       in disadvantaged areas and establish it in areas where it was not being       played.
To ensure that South Africa       reclaimed its place amongst the world’s top rugby playing Nations.
1992:
23 March:  The highlight, without doubt, in a sense the greatest highlight in 130 years of  the game in South Africa,  was the unification of the national bodies in South Africa, signed at the  Kimberley Sun Hotel.
Kimberley was chosen as the  venue for it had been the founding city of the SA Rugby Football Board in 1889 and  the SA Coloured Rugby Board in 1896.
Impetus had  been given to unification when Dr Danie Craven and Dr Louis Luyt, to the  annoyance of the government of the day met with the ANC and a SARU delegation,  led by Mr Ebrahim Patel. The eventual driving force in the unity process was  the late Mr Steve Tshwete, who later became the minister of sport in the 1994  government.
The new body  was to be known as the South African Rugby Football Union with its headquarters  at Newlands. All committees were shared. The first presidents were Dr Danie  Craven (executive president) and Mr Ebrahim Patel as co-president.
Unification  meant readmission into international rugby. The Springboks played five tests,  and a SA Development team toured the South Pacific.
That year  the International Rugby Board awarded the 1995 Rugby World Cup to South Africa.
The game had  changed since the 1987 and 1991 Rugby World Cups from which South Africa had been excluded and in the five  internationals played that year, South Africa  lost to New Zealand, to Australia by a record score, to France in France  for the first time and to England  by a record score. The French defeat was also a record against France.  The only victory was against France  in Lyons.
The  Springbok coach was John Williams. Naas Botha was the captain.
1993
4 January:  Dr Danie Craven died at his home in Stellenbosch.
Mr Ebrahim  Patel was the executive president of SARFU with Professor Fritz Eloff as  co-president.
The  Springboks played seven tests. They lost a series to France  in South Africa and a series  to Australia in Australia.  They won both tests in Argentina.
James Small  became the first South African ever sent off in a test match - for verbal abuse  to the referee, Ed Morrison.
The  Springbok coach was Ian McIntosh. Francois Pienaar was the captain.
The SA  Barbarians toured the UK.  The Springbok Sevens team played in the Hong Kong Sevens and the inaugural  Sevens World Cup, reaching the quarter-finals of both.
Three South  African teams took part in the Super 10 competition - Transvaal, Northern Transvaal  and Natal. Transvaal became the first winners of the Super 10. They  also won the Currie Cup and the Lion Cup.
1994
Dr Louis  Luyt became the new president of SARFU.
The  Springboks toured New    Zealand, losing the series 2-0 with the  third test drawn.
There was  much controversy surrounding the tour - the sending home of prop Johan le Roux  for biting Sean Fitzpatrick's ear, the sacking of the coach Ian McIntosh and an  attempt to sack the manager, Jannie Engelbrecht as well.
Kitch  Christie replaced Ian McIntosh as the Springbok coach and began an unbeaten  sequence of 14 tests with two home victories against Argentina  and then away wins against Wales  and Scotland.
The South  African Under 19 team went to the FIRA International Tournament for the first time  and, captained by Corné Krige, won the tournament, beating Italy in the final.
The South  African Sevens team again reached the quarter-finals of the Hong Kong Sevens.
Natal lost to Queensland  in the Final of the Super 10. Transvaal won  the Currie Cup.
1995:
1995 was a  most momentous year in the history of rugby football as the game decided in  Paris that it would cease to be "amateur" and become officially  professional, a concept embraced in all major countries bar Argentina.
This came  about after the best Rugby World Cup organised in the decade - and organised in  South Africa and won by South Africa.
In 1994 South Africa  had had its first democratic elections and formed its first democratic  government, casting fears of revolution aside and embracing hope as never  before.
That hope  burst into rainbow colour with the Rugby World Cup, seemingly blessing the new  nation so desperate for success and affirmation.
It started  at Newlands with an opening ceremony of South African splendour, putting to  flight all the prophets of doom who had said that South Africa could not host such an  event.
It was an  emotional day, crowned by the Springboks' decisive victory over Australia  in the opening match.
It was not  all joy and light. There was a drab match against Romania  and an ugly match in Port Elizabeth  when the lights failed and three players, including Springbok James Dalton,  were sent off.
There was  the ghastly injury to Max Britto of the Ivory Coast that left him  paralysed.
There was  the nasty quarter-final match between the Springboks and Samoa.  And all the while the All Blacks were ruling the roost.
Then came  the day in the flood at King's park and a match nearly cancelled for the  torrents of rain - and then the tide of defence that stopped Abdelatif Benazzi  inches form the Springbok line to let the Springboks into the final against the  All Blacks with rugby's most feared weapon, big Jonah Lomu.
Nobody who  was in South Africa  will forget the final - the closing ceremony the SAA Jumbo that flew over head,  Nelson Mandela in a No. 6 Springbok jersey, extra time and Joel Stransky's  dropped goal which won the match, the most famous kick in rugby's history.
Then there  was the almost religious fervour as Francois Pienaar held the golden cup aloft  while all around shouted their own alleluias.
South Africa danced in the streets that night -  all the streets, from the Cape Flats to Soweto, from Cape Augulus  to the Limpopo.
As if too  much had been given, the Pandora's box of the World Cup also contained spite  and bickering and the danger that rugby would flounder on the rock of  professionalism and the war between Rupert Murdoch and Kerry packer, a  situation saved by the decisive action of SARFU and its president Louis  Luyt.
Natal won the Bankfin-Currie Cup, Transvaal had a players'  boycott, South Africa came  second in the Southern Hemisphere Under-21 Tournament in Argentina, lost in the semi-final  of the FIRA Under 19 tournament and the Springboks were knocked out in the  quarter-finals of the Hong Kong Sevens.
Two  important decisions were made - to reduce the provinces from 22 to 14 and to  introduce quotas into all SARFU teams except the Springboks and the top  team of each province.
At the end  of the year the Springboks, with no visible sign of strain, defeated Wales at Ellis Park and then Italy in Rome and  England  at Twickenham.
1996:
As if South Africa  had had too much in 1995, there were problems in 1996.
Kitch  Christie, ill with cancer, was forced to retire as coach - an unbeaten coach.  André Markgraaff succeeded him.
South Africa played New   Zealand five times in 1996, losing four times - twice in  the new Tri-Nations, in which the Springboks came second, and twice during the  All Blacks' first series victory in South Africa.
Francois  Pienaar, the iconic captain of 1995, was not selected for the tour to Argentina and Europe  at the end of the year, to a raucous outcry from the nation.
The tour  went well with two test victories over the Pumas in Argentina,  two over France in France and one over Wales.
It was also  the year of the first Super 12 competition, won by the Auckland Blues who beat Natal in the final.
The Sevens  Springboks reached the final of the World Sevens in Hong Kong, losing to Fiji  in a close final.
The South  African A team toured the UK  and Ireland.
Natal won the  Bankfin-Currie Cup.
The under 19  team was unbeaten at the FIRA tournament but "lost" a draw with Wales  on a technicality.
The first  year of professional rugby was expensive and problematic.
1997:
The second  year of professionalism was also problematic.
The year  started in the worst way possible with the resignation of the Springbok coach,  André Markgraaff following the revelation of surreptitiously taped remarks of a  racist nature. Carel du Plessis was appointed coach in his place.
On the  playing front there seemed no real cause for concern. The Springboks had ended  well in 1996, and the South African teams were not disgraced in the Super 12,  which the Auckland Blues won.
The  international season was disaster after disaster. The Springboks lost a series  to a mediocre British Lions team and then went on to a record defeat by the All  Blacks before it ended the season with a record victory over the Wallabies -  too late to save Du Plessis's coaching job.
Western Province  won the Bankfin-Currie Cup, and then new coach Nick Mallett got his team  together, and off they went to Europe.
On that tour  the Springboks were to play the most sublime rugby of the decade.
The splendid  Springboks played the last test to be played at Parc des Princes before the  move to Stade de France. They gave France their biggest defeat ever as  they scored seven tries, four by winger Pieter Rossouw.
The  Springboks then gave England  their heaviest defeat at Twickenham and Scotland their heaviest defeat ever  as they scored 54 points in the second half to win 68-10.
Whilst  things were improving on the Springbok front, matters were degenerating on the SARFU front as the government, at the prompting of Steve Tshwete, the minister of  sport, instigated a process of inquiry into the affairs of SARFU.
In October SARFU challenged the validity of the government's inquiry into rugby in court.
1998:
The court  business got going in February and on 19 March 1998 President Nelson Mandela  appeared in court to defend his action in sanctioning the inquiry. It was a  horrible time for rugby.
SARFU won the case, but  then Louis Luyt, after a SARFU vote of no-confidence in him, resigned on  10 May 1998, to be replaced as president by Silas Nkanunu.
SARFU introduced  regionalisation in the Super 12, dividing the country into four regions.
The Coastal  Sharks, Natal  at heart, were the only regional team to perform at all well. Certainly the  results were a lot worse than those of the provinces had been. The Coastal  Sharks were third, the Western Stormers ninth, the Northern Bulls eleventh and  the Golden Cats 12th.
The Vodacom  Cup for provincial teams, with, for the first time, quotas of black players in  each team, ran concurrently with the Super 12. Griqualand West were the first  winners.
Western Samoa knocked the Springboks out of the Hong Kong sevens in the semi-final and out of the  Commonwealth Games Sevens in the quarter-final.
The SANZAR Under 21 tournament was in South    Africa. The home side came third behind Australia and Argentina.
The Lions  won the Bankfin-Currie Cup.
The  Springboks fought two tests against Ireland  and then beat Wales and England, before winning the Tri-Nations  unbeaten, including a 24-23 victory over New Zealand when the Springboks  were down 23-5 with 12 minutes to go.
At the end  of the year, a tour too far, the Springboks, losing lustre by the match, went  off to Europe yet again. They came from behind  to beat Wales, eventually  beat Scotland, and profited  from some individual brilliance to beat Ireland  and equal the world record of 17 successive test victories before dragging  themselves to Twickenham and defeat by England.
1999:
World Cup  year again - and the dropping of Gary Teichmann to uproar. Joost van der  Westhuizen became the captain in an uninspiring World Cup, but for an  exhilarating victory of France  over New Zealand in the  semi-final and the Springboks' quarter-final defeat of England in Paris  when Jannie de Beer kicked a record of five drop-goals. The Springboks lost the  no-try semi-final to Australia  in extra time and then beat the All Blacks for third place.
André Watson  of South Africa, at his  first World Cup as a referee, refereed the final between Australia and France.
Generally it  was a lacklustre year for the Springboks as they lost to Wales for the first time ever and  won only one Tri-Nations match.
The Stormers  were the best Super 12 side as they surged ahead on a tide of black, but they  squabbled about money before a home semi-final and lost.
The best  playing achievement in 1999 was the victory over the Under 21 side at the  eight-team SANZAR tournament in Buenos Aires  when they beat New Zealand  27-25 in a thrilling final, scoring three tries to one.
2000:
The  highlight of the year was probably the Yesterday's Heroes campaign that saw SARFU honour in splendid fashion all the players of the past who had played tests for  the various national bodies which existed from time to time.
Transformation  gathered pace. For the first time quotas of black players were introduced into  the Bankfin-Currie Cup. There were nine black players on the huge Springbok  team that toured at the end of the year.
After  sharing a home series with England,  the Springboks came last in the Tri-Nations with only an exciting victory over  the All Blacks.
The  aftermath of that defeat was the resignation of Nick Mallett and his  replacement with Harry Viljoen.
Mallett had  coached the Springboks through 38 tests - by far the most by any Springbok  coach.
In the Super  12 the Cats made the semi-final.
In the IRB's  first World Sevens Series the Springboks came fifth.
The Under 21  team reached the final of the SANZAR championship, only to be thrashed  by New Zealand.
The Under 19  team came sixth in the FIRA Championship.
France beat South Africa in the final of the  Students World Cup.
The  Confederation of African Rugby was inaugurated. South Africa was represented by  the Under 23 team which won the southern half of the tournament by beating  Namibia and Zimbabwe and then went on to beat Morocco in the final.
Western Province won the Bankfin-Currie Cup.
At the end  of the year the Boks toured Argentina,  Ireland, Wales and England on a nine-match tour. They  beat Argentina, Ireland and Wales  and lost to England.  They also lost midweek matches to Ireland A and the England National  Divisional XV, but they beat the Barbarians in splendid fashion as they ran and  ran.
2001:
The growing  commercialisation of the game led to the restructuring of rugby with SARFU approving the creation of a commercial arm, SA Rugby (Pty) Ltd. The company,  with a board of directors, looks after competitions and all commercial  enterprises, whilst SARFU, as the custodian of the game, looks after all  non-commercial aspects of rugby, predominantly game development.
On the field  things looked better initially as two South African teams made the Super 12  semi-finals the Cats and the Sharks.
France, looking young and uncertain, shared a  series in South Africa, and South Africa came last in the Tri-Nations - an  interesting last as they beat and drew with the eventual winners, Australia.
At the end  of the year the Springbok lost to France  and England, and then let  players off to play for the Barbarians while they went on to the USA and an unimpressive performance in Houston.
The Sevens  Springboks lost to Argentina  in the quarter-final of the Sevens World Cup and again ended fifth in the IRB  World Series.
A South  African A team toured France,  Georgia, England and Spain successfully.
The Under 23  team retained their Confederation of African Rugby Cup when they again beat Morocco  in the final.
The Under  21s had a poor tournament ending ranked sixth after losing to Ireland.
The Under  19s were placed fifth in the FIRA-AER Junior World Championship played in Chile after losing to the eventual winners, New Zealand,  in the quarter-finals.
Western Province retained the Bankfin-Currie Cup.
2007:
The Springboks journeyed to France among the favourites to   lift the Webb Ellis Trophy. In a campaign that captured the imagination of the   Rainbow Nation, the Bok delivered a second World Cup title when they beat   defending champions England 15-6 in the final.
References:
Extracts from South African Rugby Union website http://www.sarfu.org.za accessed Nov       10th 2007.
Rugby and the South African Nation –       Black David R. & Nauright, John. Manchester       university press. 0 7190 4932 6
The history of South African rugby football       (1875-1932) Difford, Ivor D. The specialty press of S.A. ltd. Pub. 1933.
Extracts from: Chris       Thau three-part series celebrating South African rugby's centenary       year.
Extract on apartheid from http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/ accessed Nov       11th 2007.
Extracts from http://www.southafrica.info accessed Nov       11th 2007.
Visit to SARU museum at Newlands Stadium, May 2011
Credits |Contact Us | ©2007 www.rugbyfootballhistory.com