Film Transfer Service in San Antonio Texas
One flat rate of $200.00 per running hour for the transfer of your film. To calculate your amount of film, use this simple rule of thumb*.  In return we clean the film, trim off the leaders, splice, organize and transfer through our state of the
art
system package and return post your film and DVDs (or other media).
* 50' of Super 8 = 3.3 minutes; 50' of 8mm = 4.4 minutes; 50' of 16mm = 2.1 minutes.
Click Here* for an excerpt
from
the San
Antonio
Express-News about Matson's Film Transfer service. (You may encounter a short loading delay).
Two (2) DVD copies, free replacement of broken or scratched DVDs in the future, and your choice of your unique still Image
for the DVD wallet case cover.  No one does this for this price.
We want you to use the DVDs we produce for you. But we know there may be accidents. By being a client of Matson, we will
replace your Matson produced broken or scratched DVD you only pay the postage return. To make the copy, we will use the
extra DVD we encouraged you not to use and set aside for safe keeping like in a safety deposit box. Simply return the extra
DVD, the broken DVD, too and our guarantee certificate along with $5.00 to cover postage (per DVD) and we will dispatch a
fresh new copy ASAP!
That’s four (4) items to send to us: Broken DVD, Good DVD, Guarantee Certificate, $5.00/DVD.
Reason #1:
Your film is deteriorating while you are reading this
webpage.
Reason #2:
Make it easy and accessible to view your filmed
memories.
Reason #3:
No more burnt out bulbs, screens to set up, film tears to
repair.
Reason #4:
DVDs make everything so easy and inexpensive to view old
images.
Like film, video tape deteriorates with time. And it is a subtle deterioration: first the colors fade and then the rest of
the images. So, we recommend all transfers be made to DVD. Each DVD will have an automatically imbedded chapter stop
every 5
minutes. Additional reasons: better video transfer and better audio on playback.
Once your film memories are archived to DVD, you will be assured that the images will last for years. Remember, all orders
include one DVD copy for the safety deposit box and the other one for general use. All DVDs are only one scratch or
mishandling away from becoming useless.
Note: If you intend to edit your films after the transfer, we recommend a film transfer to mini-DV or DVCAM tape. All Prices
are here. If you decide to transfer to digital tape, please note that we will not transfer titles or music.
We don't want you to forget your valued memories that are now on film so here's our good news:  transfer prices are
reasonable!  Once transferred view your movies on a DVD set top player, a computer or a VCR. Additionally, you can
choose
the transfer to be to: VHS, mini-DV, DVCAM tape or DVD-R (our recommendation). We keep it simple too our prices are the
same for 8mm, super 8mm or 16mm film.
Regular 8mm
Super 8mm
16mm
If reels have already been combined, here is a handy guide to figure out (approximately) the length of footage on the reels.
Note this is for estimating only.
Reel diameter
Footage of film
3"
50
5"
200
6"
300
7"
400
Note: 50' of Super 8mm = 3.3 minutes; 50' of 8mm = 4.4 minutes; 50' of 16mm = 2.1 minutes.
>
Sort or assist to place in
chronological order
or review your requested sort.
>
Rewind and repair as
necessary - 'upside down' or even 'backwards' wound film.
>
Combine film onto larger
reels for uninterrupted transfer process.
>
Transfer using our
Tobin Direct Imaging equipment.
>
Add orchestral (or your
specified) background music - unless the film contains sound.
>
Insert a screen title
to begin your film transfer.
>
Matson has been doing
this process since the 1970s. We know what you expect!
Remember: our special internet offer includes an original and one copy at no additional charge!
1.
Don't forget to number the reels
so
we know the order for the transfer.
2.
Complete the Matson order form.
3.
Send your completed form and
film - see address below.
We do quality work so it can take a few weeks to process your order. If you desire an update or to confirm our receipt of
your valuable package, please email us at sales@matsonmultimedia.com.
We need you to complete all materials before we can begin.  Once completed, please ship to:
Matson Creative 403 E. Ramsey #101 San Antonio, TX 78216 : P 210.349.3674
As the nation's leading and oldest film transfer studio, Matson uses the most technologically up to date telecine equipment; direct imaging from film to sensor which is even better than advanced aerial imaging!
There is no condenser lens, field lens, zoom lens, closeup lens, mirror, variable size iris or separate projection lens to degrade the image. THE IMAGES COME ALIVE - NO KIDDING.
We are proud of our process and our clients love the results!
* Excerpted from a The MAC Guy column by Paul Vaughn in the San Antonio Express-News, September 3, 2006.  Copyright 2006 San Antonio Express-News
Reprinted with permission.
home : CD/DVD duplication and replication : video production / editing / transfer : 8mm & 16mm film transfer
weddings : photo restoration : audio production / transfer : newsclip service : store : contact
© 2007 Matson
Creative