Lowell, MA | Official Website
Skip to Main Content
Search
Government      Departments      Business      How Do I...
City Council & Boards
Pay My Bills
Lowell 311
Construction Projects
Notify Me ®
Health & Social Services
Latest Updates
What’s happening in the city of Lowell
City Hall Hours & Operations
Lowell City Hall and all offices are currently operating on a regular schedule.
Trash & Recycling
Trash & Recycling pickup is running on a regular schedule.						Read on...
Career Opportunities
The City is seeking qualified applicants for positions in various Departments.			Learn more & apply today.
Join a Board or Commission
The City is seeking applicants to serve on advisory boards and commission. View current opportunities.			View current opportunities.
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA)
City of Lowell American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) spending dashboard.  The dashboard provides an informative review of data points, summaries, and spending activities related to Lowell's ARPA plan.			Additional Info...
/CivicAlerts.aspx
Weekly Yard Waste Collection Returns March 17th
The weekly yard waste collection returns on March 17, 2025. The frequency schedule will run as follows:
March 17 - May 23 (Weekly Pickup)
May 27 - October 10 (Bi-Weekly Pickup)
October 13 - December 19 (Weekly Pickup)						Read on...
Notice of Unclaimed Property and Uncashed Checks
The City of Lowell currently holds unclaimed property and uncashed checks. Individuals or entities who believe they may have outstanding funds are encouraged to go to Treasurer/Collector's Department Page and check the available lists.						Read on...
Introducing Lowell 311 Non-Emergency Service Request System
Lowell residents now have an easier way to report non-emergency issues and request City services! Whether you need information, assistance, or want to report a concern, the new 311 Service Request system makes it simple.						Read on...
Motor Vehicle Excise Tax Bills Due April 7th
Motor vehicle excise tax bills for the 2025 tax year have been mailed and are due on 4/7/2025. For your convenience, the City has many ways to pay!						Read on...
City of Lowell Celebrates Women's History Month
In honor of International Women's Day and Women's History Month, we celebrate the strength, leadership, and impact of women in Lowell.						Read on...
City of Lowell Announces New "Lowell Current" Newsletter for Residents and Businesses
The City Communications Team announces a pair of new e-mail newsletters for residents and businesses. These newsletters will inform people about construction, city events, and more! Click the links in this article to sign up.						Read on...
New ARPA Park Upgrades Coming In 2025
This year the City will be renovating eight parks throughout Lowell as part of the ARPA Neighborhood Improvement Plan. We invite you to celebrate the final designs with us at upcoming events.						Read on...
City of Lowell Unveils 2024 Year In Review Video Presentation
With 2025 underway, City Manager Thomas Golden, Jr. took a moment to reflect on a year of remarkable growth, progress, and community spirit in Lowell. Watch the video presentation on our City YouTube Channel.						Read on...
Lowell Police Department Receives MPAC Accreditation
Lowell City Manager Thomas A. Golden Jr. is proud to report The Lowell Police Department has earned reaccreditation status from the Massachusetts Police Accreditation Commission.						Read on...
View All News
/CivicAlerts.aspx
Resource:#Lowell
Resource:Lowell High School Project
Resource:Code Red
CASE Arts & Culture Calendar
The Office of Cultural Affairs and Special Events (CASE) Calendar highlights arts and culture events in Lowell. Visit the calendar to see what's happening and submit an event.
Recreation Department Calendar
The Lowell Recreation Department Calendar provides a year-round overview of field spaces in the City. Visit the calendar to see programming, check field space availability, and make a reservation.
Lowell City Council
As the legislative body of the City, the City Council meets weekly throughout the year (except during the summer) to exercise general and specific powers as outlined in the Rules of the City Council according to the Plan E Charter Organization.
1
Dancers in the street, downtown Lowell
2
Kids playing Twister outside in the park with the Rec Dept
3
Closeup of a statue
March 2025
Sun
Mon
Tue
Wed
Thu
Fri
Sat
23
24
25
26
27
28
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
1
2
3
4
5
Tue, Mar. 25
Cultural Council Board Meeting
Cultural Council Board MeetingRead on...
Wed, Mar. 26
Board of Parks Meeting
Board of Parks MeetingRead on...
Conservation Commission Meeting
Conservation Commission MeetingRead on...
Thu, Mar. 27
Sustainability Council Meeting
Sustainability Council MeetingRead on...
View All Events
/Calendar.aspx
Site Links
Home
Site Map
Contact Us
Accessibility
Copyright Notices
Privacy Policy
/QuickLinks.aspx
For City Services on the go download our mobile app
For Android devices
For Apple devices
Contact Us
Lowell City Hall375 Merrimack StreetLowell, MA 01852Phone: 978-674-4000Email Us
City Hall Hours
Monday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.Tuesday: 8 a.m. - 8 p.m.Wednesday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.Thursday: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.Friday: 8 a.m. - NoonOther departments may have other hours. Please check their webpage for specific hours.
Government Websites by CivicPlus®
Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again
Close
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow