Edmund Kemper, horoscope for birth date 18 December 1948, born in Burbank (Los Angeles County), with Astrodatabank biography
Kemper, Edmund
From Astro-Databank
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Edmund Kemper,natal chart (Placidus)
natal chart English style (Equal houses)natal chart with Whole Sign houses
Name
Kemper, Edmund
Gender:  M
Birthname
Edmund Emil Kemper, III
born on
18 December 1948 at 23:04  (= 11:04 PM )
Place
Burbank (Los Angeles County), California, 34n11,  118w18
Timezone
PDT h7w (is daylight saving time)
Data source
BC/BR in hand
Rodden Rating AA
Collector: Shaw, Victoria
Astrology data
27°16'   04°47 Asc. 05°13'
add Edmund Kemper to 'my astro'
Edmund Kemper
Biography
American serial murderer and necrophiliac. A sadistic sociopath, he selected his victims for the purpose of venting deep-rooted sexual and sadistic urges.  His victims were high-born, educated, spoiled, perhaps too-pretty, the kind who he felt were cruel to him in high school.
The son of an electrician, Kemper was born after a short two-hour labor.  He grew to 6' 9" in height, 280 lbs.  He was so strong that friends called him "forklift."  He could lift two 98 lb. sacks of flour easily.  As a kid in grade school he slaughtered cats and dogs and decapitated his sister Allyn's dolls.  He showed an unusually strong sexual curiosity but had a total lack of sex education other than misinformation from his peers.  A middle child, he had two sisters.  His dad was not often around and left the family when Kemper was seven years old.  His mom moved the family to Montana so he never saw his dad; he blamed his mom entirely.  At eight, he began to live in two separate worlds.
When he was 14, Kemper's mom was having an increasingly difficult time handling him.  She was planning to remarry so she sent him, protesting and against his will, to live with his paternal grandparents on an isolated farm.  On 27 August 1964, when Kemper was 15, he shot and stabbed both his grandparents, North Fork, CA, then called his mom to tell her what he had done.  He was institutionalized as a juvenile in Atascadero mental hospital for five years, when he was released to his mother's custody as "cured."  He and his mom resumed their repeated arguments, as when he was a kid.  In March 1970 he went to work as a laborer at Green Giant farms in Watsonville, California.
After 1970, he killed, beheaded, dissected and cannibalized eight women, including his mother, whose head he dismembered and placed on the mantle, throwing darts at it.  During the act of killing, Kemper had spontaneous orgasms.  As an adult, he could only achieve sexual satisfaction with dead women.   He told doctors that he was unable to have sex with living women.  He took Polaroid pictures of his dead victims, and cooked and ate pieces of their flesh.
Murder No.1 was on 7 May 1972, Anita Luchessa, 18, a straight A student.
No. 2, July 1972, Rosalind Zuniga, a high school student.  Kemper denies this one.
No.3, August 1972, Mary Ann Pesce, a Fresno state co-ed.  He buried her severed head in the Santa Cruz Mountains.
No.4, 14 September 1972, Aiko Koo, 15, the first victim to be totally dismembered.
No. 5, October 1972, Mary Guilfoyle, 24, a college student, was found stabbed and dismembered.
No.6, 8 January 1973, Cynthia Ann Schall, 18, was shot while hitchhiking to school.  (Her head was found in Kemper's mother's back yard on 26 April 1973.  It had been buried facing his bedroom window so he could look out and know she was looking at him. He had dismembered her body in the bathroom after sex and taking Polaroid porno pictures.  Her body parts were found in the ocean at Monterey, CA.)
No.7, 5 February 1973, 08:30 PM, Rosalind Thorpe, 23, a UCSC student.  (Her head was found ten days later in Pacifica and the headless body in Alameda near Castro Valley.)
No. 8 was the same day, on 5 February 1973, Alice  Helen Liu, 20, also from the UCSC campus.  Both were shot and beheaded.  Kemper's mom worked at the UCSC administration office and had an official sticker on her car, which Kemper used.  Although it was known that a killer was picking up hitch-hiking girls, Kemper wrote in his diary that 110 young women had accepted rides with him.
No. 9, 21 April 1973, during the evening, Kemper killed his mother.  He bashed her head with a hammer then cut her throat and dismembered her head, which he put on the mantle.  Her larynx was removed and put down the garbage disposal to pay for her verbal abuse.  He also cut off her left hand.  He wrote in his diary, "She is the left hand of God, very fierce, very formidable, very foreboding."  At his trial, he said, "I was amazed how much like the others she died, how vulnerable and human she was.  I was trying to hurt society where it hurts by taking its valuable members."
No.10, 21 April 1973, he killed Sara Hallett, 59, at his mom's house.  Sara was his mom's friend and he thought he could explain his mother's absence by saying she had gone away with a friend.
Three days later he called the police from Pueblo, Colorado and admitted the murder of the two older women.  On 28 April 1973, he led Santa Cruz police to four sites where they found remains of three dismembered bodies.  He was charged with eight murders on 30 April 1973.  On 28 June 1973 he pled not-guilty, and on 26 September 1973, pled innocent due to insanity. A psychiatrist said that he was sane at the time of the murders.  Kemper refused to eat or take medication and between May and November, made several suicide attempts.  At the trial, he was declared guilty and was given life in prison on 8 November 1973.
Housed in California Medical Facility in Vacaville, Kemper has requested a partial lobotomy and was refused.  He is kept sedated because of his fits of rage and uncontrollable size.
Link to Wikipedia biography
Events
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  1964   (Killed his grandparents)
Work : New Job  March 1970   (Started work at Green Giant)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  7 May 1972   (No. 1, Anita Luchessa)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  July 1972   (No.2, Rosalind Zuniga)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  August 1972   (No.3, Mary Ann Pesce, dismembered her)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  14 September 1972   (No.4, Aiko Koo, dismembered her)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  October 1972   (No.5, Mary Guilfoyle, stabbed and dismembered)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  8 January 1973   (No.6, Cynthia Ann Schall, shot, dismembered and buried her head in his mom's yard)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  5 February 1973 at 8:30 PM  (No.7, Rosalind Thorpe, shot, beheaded and buried separately)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  5 February 1973   (No.8, Alice Helen Liu, shot, beheaded)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  21 April 1973   (No.9, Cut throat of mom, beheaded and placed on mantle, dismembered)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Homicide Perpetration  21 April 1973   (No.10, Sara Hallett, his mom's friend)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Social : Secrets revealed  28 April 1973   (Led police to four sites of dismembered bodies)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Arrest  30 April 1973   (Charged with eight murders)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Death : Suicide Attempt  28 May 1973   (First attempt, slashed wrists with a pen)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Trial dates  28 June 1973   (Pled not-guilty)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Trial dates  26 September 1973   (Pled innocent by insanity)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Death : Suicide Attempt  28 October 1973   (Second attempt, slashed r. wrist with pen)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Death : Suicide Attempt  5 November 1973   (Third attempt, opened wound with paper clip)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Crime : Trial dates  8 November 1973   (Sentenced to life in prison)  chart Placidus Equal_H.
Source Notes
B.C. in hand from Victoria Shaw.
Categories
Traits : Body : Diet unusual (Cannibal)
Traits : Body : Size (2.06 m/ 6 ft 9 in)
Traits : Personality : Temper (Rages)
Diagnoses : Psychological : Abuse Drugs (Kept sedated in prison)
Diagnoses : Psychological : Psychotic Episode (Rages)
Diagnoses : Psychological : Schizophrenia (Necrophiliac, cannibal)
Family : Childhood : Family traumatic event (Killed and decapitated his mom)
Family : Childhood : Order of birth (Second of three, only boy)
Family : Childhood : Parent, Single or Step (Age seven when dad left family)
Lifestyle : Social Life : Animals, pets (Killed dogs and cats)
Passions : Sexuality : Sexual dysfunction (Sexual curiosity and obsession from childhood)
Passions : Sexuality : Sexual perversions (Necrophiliac)
Passions : Criminal Perpetrator : Homicide serial (Beheaded, dissected, cannibalized ten)
Passions : Criminal Perpetrator : Torturer/ Sadist (Mutilation)
Notable : Famous : Criminal cases (Serial killer, high profile)
Notable : Book Collection : Occult/ Misc. Collection
Retrieved from "https://www.astro.com/wiki/astro-databank/index.php?title=Kemper,_Edmund&oldid=318890"
Categories: 1948 birthsBirthday 18 DecemberBirthplace Burbank (Los Angeles County), CA (US)Sun 27 SagittariusMoon 4 LeoAsc 5 VirgoTraits : Body : Diet unusualTraits : Body : SizeTraits : Personality : TemperDiagnoses : Psychological : Abuse DrugsDiagnoses : Psychological : Psychotic EpisodeDiagnoses : Psychological : SchizophreniaFamily : Childhood : Family traumatic eventFamily : Childhood : Order of birthFamily : Childhood : Parent, Single or StepLifestyle : Social Life : Animals, petsPassions : Sexuality : Sexual dysfunctionPassions : Sexuality : Sexual perversionsPassions : Criminal Perpetrator : Homicide serialPassions : Criminal Perpetrator : Torturer/ SadistNotable : Famous : Criminal casesNotable : Book Collection : Occult/ Misc. Collection
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Log in
Namespaces
PageDiscussion
English
Views
ReadView history
More
Search
Navigation
Main pageAll pagesNew pagesRecent changesRandom pageHelpHelp Astrodatabank research toolHelp externalto Astrodienst
Tools
What links hereRelated changesSpecial pagesPrintable versionPermanent linkPage information
This page was last edited on 7 March 2024, at 12:42.
Content is available under these permissions. unless otherwise noted.
Privacy policy
About Astro-Databank
Disclaimers
Mobile view