Kansas State University | K-State
Powercat
chevron
double-chevron
chat-purple
home
computer window with a question mark
close
facebook
linkedin
menu
search
twitter
youtube
apply-purple
apply-white
chat-white
request-purple
request-white
Jump to main contentJump to footer
Kansas State University
Canvas
OrgCentral
Navigate
KSIS
HRIS
Webmail
Sign in
Browse A-Z
Kansas State UniversitySearch
Search
Pause video
Welcome to
Kansas State University
Leading the nation as the next-generation land-grant university, K-State is the first operational land-grant university in the United States. The home of the Wildcats is setting the standard for inspired learning, creativity, discovery and engagement – positively impacting society and transforming lives in Kansas and around the world.
#1
University in Kansas
University Magazine, 2024
#1
Best Quality of Life
Princeton Review, 2023
Explore your interests
Study what you love, connect it to a career and empower yourself to become the best version of you.
150+ Online Programs
Microcredentials
250 +
undergraduate programs
165 +
graduate programs
Request information
Sign up to receive information about degree programs, scholarship opportunities, upcoming events, admission and much more.
Request now
Apply for admission
Dream big and create the future you want. Start your K-State admission application today!
Apply now
View scholarships and financial aid
Explore available financial assistance opportunities, including scholarships, grants, loans, work-study and other aid options.
View now
Visit a K-State campus
K-State is made up of three campuses, each with its own focus, feel and size. With both in-person and virtual visit options, you’re sure to find you're fit.
Schedule a visit
Impact in Kansas and Beyond
K-State experts create real-world impact every day. Faculty and researchers inspire learning and discovery while working to solve societal problems locally, nationally and across the world. Read some of today's top stories mentioning Kansas State University.
This virus is not so easy to get rid of. We will have to live with it for some years to come.
Jürgen Richt
Regents and University Distinguished Professor, Diagnostic Medicine Pathobiology
Here's why bird flu fears are intensifying – NPR
Read the full story
I think this is a huge opportunity for U.S. agriculture, and it's not just reducing greenhouse gases, but again, many of these practices help decrease input costs and increase profitability of our farm operations in the United States.
Charles Rice
University Distinguished Professor, Department of Agronomy
Potential for U.S. agriculture to be a net-negative greenhouse gas emitter – National Hog Farmer
Read the full story
It’s probably not going to get easier to compromise.
Jennifer Ifft
Associate Professor, Department of Agricultural Economics
Farmers struggle with ‘bleak’ situation as Congress waffles on new farm bill – Successful Farming
Read the full story
Campus Locations
Our campuses are rich with history and each provide a unique college experience to our students. Kansas State University offers three physical campuses in addition to our online offerings via K-State Online.
Manhattan
Our flagship campus established in 1863, rooted in the land-grant mission of educational access and opportunity.
Salina
Centered around the student experience emphasizing innovative learning, real-world experiences and industry connections.
Olathe
Expanding potential through education, research and engagement in the Greater Kansas City area.
News
Read more news
Events
See all events
Visit the 2025 Federal Government Transition website for updates and guidance.
apply-white
chat-white
request-white
How to ApplyRequest InfoVisitKansas State UniversityManhattan, KS 66506785-532-6011
Safety/reporting
Careers
Faculty/staff
Information technology
Title IX/Nondiscrimination
Maps
Calendar
A to Z
Contact Us
Emergency
Statements and Disclosures
Accessibility
KBOR Free Expression Statement
© Kansas State University
Updated