How to make a “Galette des Rois”- France’s ‘Christmas Cake of Kings’ | French For Foodies
Recipes, French culinary secrets and cooking adventures by an Aussie in Paris
Search
French For Foodies
Home
Paris Addresses
Top 10 Paris Lunches
Top 10 Paris Coffees
Where to Buy Cheese in Paris
Recipes
Cafe Sydney’s Beetroot Tart
Sweet Potato, Champignon & Hazelnut Velouté
Tuna Bresaola & Fennel Carpaccio
‘Skinny Parisien’ Chocolate Mousse
Rachel’s Fig & Goats Cheese Tart with Rosemary Honey
The Best Ever Latin Flan Creme Caramel
Pickled Beetroot Carpaccio
About
How to make a “Galette des Rois”- France’s ‘Christmas Cake of Kings’
18
Jan
Galette des Rois- Frangipane et Pistache citron by Gontran Cherrier
It’s January in France- the buzzing and festive time of year when every boulangerie window in France is filled with impressive displays of the traditional French pastry called la “Galette des Rois” – literally translated as “Kings Cake” or “The Cake of three kings.”
Starting from January 6th, this delicious, flaky pastry with a delicate buttery crust is traditionally filled with frangipane (almond cream paste), and in the south of France, you will also find a brioche-like version filled with glazed fruit called Gateau des Rois. The Galette des Rois celebrates the Feast of the Epiphany, when the three wise men came to see the baby Jesus.
Tradition has it that a lucky charm- a small porcelain figurine (originally a small fève or bean), is buried in the almond cream before the top layer of puff pastry seals the cake and baked into the galette, then whoever is lucky enough to find it in their slice, is crowned King for the day and granted the honor of wearing the golden crown (The galettes are always sold with a cardboard gold crown purely to serve this purpose and tradition)- so it’s not just the children who get to have all the fun!
Galette Fever. The Galette des Rois fills boulangerie window displays all over France through the month of January
So, if you’re not in France and can’t get your hands on a traditional Galette des Rois this January, or you just simply want the fun and pleasure of making your own, as promised here is a brilliant recipe from our favorite Parisian baker whose Galettes are selling like hotcakes in Paris right now- the talented Gontran Cherrier. Gontran has generously shared the delicious recipe for his popular lemon and pistachio Galette- as shown in the pics below. The lemon and pistachio galette is a wonderful balance and combination of flavors, with the delicate pistachio nutty pistachio complimented by small bursts of citrus flavor from the candied lemon in a smooth but not overly sweet paste which is nestled between layers and layers of perfectly crafted feuilleté pastry. Divine!
Boulanger Gontran Cherrier with his assortment of freshly baked Galletes des Rois
Galette des Rois- Mediterranean pistachio and lemon
The recipe does not include making the puff pastry from scratch, but if you really want to have a go at making your own pastry (and I highly recommend you give it a go), here are some great resources to guide you in the right direction:
Fail-proof puff pastry recipe and detailed instructions using tips of the trade from Ecole Ferrandi
A French-American mother and daughter team teach us how to make the galette from scratch, straight from their kitchen (video in English).
You can make either the traditional ‘frangipane’ version simply with ground almonds, or experiment with different flavors such as the lemon and pistachio, or try other non-traditional aromatic additions such as candied orange zest and sweet spices like cinnamon.
Recipe:
Gontran Cherrier’s Mediterranean Galette des Rois with Lemon and Pistachio
Galette des Rois- la Mediterranenne avec crème d’amande, pistache et citron confit
Serves 6 – 8
Ingredients:
2 discs of puff pastry- 24 cm in diameter.
70g butter
70g sugar
1 egg
50g finely ground pistachios
20g finely ground almonds
10g plain flour
10 g candied lemon peel
1 egg
1 pinch sea salt/fleur de sel
Directions:
Preheat oven to 200 ° C.
Soften butter to a spreadable consistency. Add the caster sugar in mixer and whisk until it whitens ‘creams’ to form a thick texture.
Add the egg and continue mixing until smooth and combined.
Add the ground pistachio and almond flour and mix well.
Finely chop the candied lemon and add to the mixture.
Prepare a flat baking tray with a layer of baking paper. Place one of the discs of puff pastry on the baking sheet. Using a baking brush wet a 2-3 cm perimeter edge on the pastry disc with water.
Spoon the almond pistachio mixture into the middle of the pastry disc and spread out the mixture, stopping 3 cm’s from the edge. Strategically place your ‘fève’s’ (you can also use one or 2 cent coins) into the almond mixture. Gently place the second disc of puff pastry over the top, and using the back of a knife held vertically at 45 °, press and seal together the 3cm edge of the two pastry sheets. Gently etch a design of your choice into the top disc of pastry using the edge of a knife.
Beat the egg with a pinch of salt. Use the pastry bush to spread on a thin layer of egg glaze of over the top disc of pastry.
Bake for approx 25 minutes, until puffy and golden.
Move the galette from the tray and baking paper and transfer to a wire rack to cool.
Invite your friends and family to the table
Cut your galette into even slices for everyone
Eat with caution…
Enjoy!
Pastry perfection. The delicate, flaky pastry with pistachio lemon almond creme is absolutely divine.
Retro recipe. A recipe card lift-out published in 1972 for the Galette des Rois
Like this post? Share the love!TweetEmailLike Loading...
Related
Tags: cake of kings, Food & Wine Photography, french christmas cake, french christmas pastry, galette des rois, gontran cherrier galette, gontran cherrier recipe, kings cake, traditional french pastry christmas
Comments
5 Comments
Categories
France Culture, Paris, Seasonal food recipes
← La petite cuisine à Paris. Paris private dining for two chez Rachel Khoo
Queen of Tarts: Catherine Kluger’s sweet and savoury delights to warm the heart →
5 Responses to “How to make a “Galette des Rois”- France’s ‘Christmas Cake of Kings’”
Lygia Fielding
January 4, 2016 at 8:46 am
#
Hello,
This seems an excellent recipe for galette de roos. Unfortunately I don’t manage access to the link on puff pastry from Ecole Ferrandi that shows off in this site. I receive a note saying permission denied and the blog seems only available to invited people. Please I would like some help on this matter as I would like the complete recipe for this galette.
Thank you.
Fail-proof puff pastry recipe and detailed instructions using tips of the trade from Ecole Ferrandi
Reply
Catherine Williams
December 30, 2011 at 10:25 pm
#
N’oublions pas la Galette des Rois meme en Angleterre.
Reply
Nancy
December 27, 2011 at 3:22 pm
#
Hello,
Do you know where to buy feves?  We would like to make this cake.  Thank you.
Reply
frenchforfoodies.com
December 28, 2011 at 8:31 am
#
Hi Nancy, which country do you live in?
Reply
rockcandytv
January 1, 2012 at 11:18 pm
#
Hello.  I am in the US – in upstate New York.  We have a bunch from other cakes which we will use – if we have to, but would love some new ones.  Thank you.
Reply
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Δ
Bienvenue!Welcome to French for Foodies! Sign-up to
satisfy your cravings with regular doses of French foodie adventures from an Aussie living in Paris.
Fellow foodie? Feed your ♥ addiction!
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
SIgn me up for updates!
Popular Posts
How to give good bread: Buying the perfect baguette
The art of finding and buying a good French baguette
Mamma Mia Ciasa Mia! Could this be the best pasta in Paris?
Where to find and how to make this amazing pasta
My top 10: The best addresses for cheese shopping and finding a good coffee in Paris
Look no further – it’s the Paris good coffee guide
Sepia Sydney: A sublime performance of senses and recipe by Martin Benn
An extraordinary meal and amazing recipe from Sepia Restaurant, Sydney
French comfort food:  Mr Christian Dauve’s ultimate Gratin Dauphinois recipe
The original recipe from the 17th century. Look no further
Fellow fromage fan?
Most Recent
Lunch with Yamashita: Paris’ celebrity vegetable gardener
Fromage under fire: Why French cheese faces extinction
How to give good bread: Buying the perfect baguette
My recent run-in with Rome’s ‘Nazi di Formaggi’
Mamma Mia Ciasa Mia! Could this be the best pasta in Paris?
My top 10: The best addresses for cheese shopping and finding a good coffee in Paris
The art of Easter. Chocolate egg design reaches new heights in Paris
Welcome to Paris, hello New York! The French obsession with American food
A heart between two homes
Sepia Sydney: A sublime performance of senses and recipe by Martin Benn
French comfort food:  Mr Christian Dauve’s ultimate Gratin Dauphinois recipe
An expat Christmas in Paris: eating and shopping in the city of lights
French family recipes – Martine from Brittany and her famous ‘Lotte à l’Armoricaine’
Delicious Discoveries from the Gourmet Jury at Haute Cuisine Paris
The Annual Paris Summer Shutdown: Ten Great Paris Restaurants Open This August
Rachel’s PhotographyCategories
Cheese/Fromage
Food Trends
France Culture
Gastronomy
Italian Food
Malta
Paris
Products
Regional Cuisine
Restaurants
Reviews
Seasonal food recipes
Sydney
Archives
January 2013
October 2012
August 2012
July 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
July 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
September 2010
August 2010
June 2010
April 2010
Feed Me by RSS RSS - Posts
Great Blogs + Friends Carla Coulson Photography
The Sicilian Cuisine Blog
Paris Breakfasts
Urban Chic Guides (Sydney)
The French Ozzie (Australia)
Love in the city of lights
Martine’s Cuisine
Dastrueffelschwein (German)
Gourmetise
Dorie Greenspan
Marion a Decouvert
Paris Foodie Froggy
Chez Loulou France
The Blind Taste
Je ne sais quoi
Mathilde’s Cuisine
Food Reporter
La Tartine Gourmande
She Who Eats
Delicious Days
Gourmet Raw: G Living
Gourmet Magazine
Be The Foodie (Sydney)
Pierre Cuisine (Paris)
Foodie Pop (Sydney)
Not Quite Nigella (Sydney)
Roost Blog (Alabama)
Lucy's Kitchen Notebook (Lyon)
Lucillian Delights (Tuscany)
Popote de vero (Paris)
Dejeuner de Soleil(Paris/Rome)
Dream About Food
The Runaway Spoon (Tennessee)
The Sartorialist (Fashion)
Meet Me @ Mikes
Books by Friends
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
Cookie Policy
Comment
Reblog
Subscribe
Subscribed
French For Foodies
Join 769 other subscribers
Sign me up
Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now.
French For Foodies
Subscribe
Subscribed
Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content
View post in Reader
Manage subscriptions
Collapse this bar
Loading Comments...
Write a Comment...
Email (Required)
Name (Required)
Website
%d