Welcome to Philcoradio.com
PHILCORADIO.COM
Phorum
Gallery
Library
Photofinish
Repair Bench
Â  Â Welcome
Â
PHILCO PHORUM
Mobile-Friendly
The Philco Phorum is a family-friendly place for the discussion of Philco radios and related items. Additional content, downloads, and much more are available to you when you create an account and sign up as a member. It's free - sign up today!
PHILCO GALLERY
Mobile-Friendly
The Philco Gallery history of Philco home radios built in the United States from 1928 through 1960. Learn details about price, production numbers, and much more. Downloads such as period is a complete visual ads and catalogs are also available for free!
PHILCO LIBRARY
Mobile-Friendly
The Philco Library provides reference material for servicing your Philco radio. An extensive searchable parts list and scans of Philco catalogs, service bulletins can be accessed for free. It also offers a definitive history of the company and its products.
DIY PHOTOFINISH
Archived Site
Patrick Franzis and Stewart Schooley's DIY Photofinish site is archived here on Philcoradio.com. Learn how to repair and reproduce the finish of sets that use a photo-based (paper) technique for giving the appearance of fancier real wood veneer.
PHILCO REPAIR BENCH
Archived Site
Chuck Schwark's Philco Repair Bench is archived here on Philcoradio.com. Service tips, parts values and much more!
About
Philcoradio.com officially opened on Labor Day 2000. This website traces its history back to a small site hosted on a local ISP in 1997 (remember when ISPs offered web pages to their customers?). It soon moved to another host. During those first few years the predecessor to Philcoradio.com did not have very much Philco information. The site continued to grow until 2000 when Philcoradio.com was established, focusing on vintage Philco radios and related items. It grew exponentially over the next decade and a half.
The Philco Phorum began on September 27, 2005. Like Philcoradio.com, it experienced rapid growth until its membership numbered in the thousands. In July 2016, the Philcoradio.com website merged with the Philco Phorum to create a combination of a popular online forum and the largest online repository of information on the Web devoted to the history of Philco radio products.
The Philco Radio Historical Society began on January 1, 2019. The Society was established as a means to ensure continued availability of the content of the website, Phorum, Gallery and Library as well as develop additional resources of value to the vintage radio community. The generous donation of the web content to the Society by the founder of philcoradio.com, Ron Ramirez, made this possible.
The current directors of PRHS are:
Paul Buresh (Paul Philco322) - treasurer
Bob Coraor (klondike98) - president
Gary S Pociask (GarySP)
Debbie Ramirez (peacelady)
Nathan Slingerland
Greg Van Beek (NostalgiaRadioTime)
Jeff Wiles (PhilcoPhan1936)
© 1997-2024 Philco Radio Historical Society. All rights reserved.