Artist of the Month: Morris E. Day of The Original 7ven (Formerly The Time) • Grown Folks Music
Home
Latest
Music
Welcome to the Kouffee Lounge
Mixes
GFM Editorials
70s
80s
90s
Cover Me Sundays
Rewind Review
Kashif Presents: The History of R&B music
Artist of the Month
Get Grown
GFM Cinema
Tributes
Podcasts
GFM Live
Gallery
Interviews
Shop
Cart
Checkout
My Account
Privacy Policy
Search
Cart
Your cart is currently empty.
Artist of the Month: Morris E. Day of The Original 7ven (Formerly The Time)October 25, 2011|In Artist of the Month, Funk, Pop, R&B, Rock, Soul|By Hope West
Known for his  narcissistic persona , Morris Day is notorious for being the primping playboy with the egotistical mantra of his own greatness. In being this flamboyant gigolo with the chili sauce, he is the man every woman wants and every man hopes to be. But in addition to his larger than life role as the front man of The Original 7ven, he’s also a drummer in his own right. Playing percussions with Prince’s early band, Grand Central and later creating the song Partyup, placed on Prince’s Dirty Mind album, Morris later created The Time where he played drums and co-produced some of the albums while unexpectedly becoming the lead vocalist in its early formation. Initially uncomfortable in being the lead, he later eased into it like a nice pair of Stacy Adams. While we’ll play Fishnet from his solo album, Daydreaming,  we’ll also check out the comical track, Tricky. This cut was a non album track showing the comical banter between him and Prince along with Morris’ skills on the drums.
To find out his musical influences and the drummer he said “couldn’t f**k with him” on their best day 🙂 , you gotta pick up the Condensate album from Best Buy for the DVD bonus! It’s a must for any Original 7ven fan! Yaayeesss!!!
Hope WestHope West is a music enthusiast and music photographer who has captured artists like B.B. King, Janet Jackson, Teddy Riley and many others.  A life long lover of music, Hope is a graduate of Full Sail University where she studied music engineering. She’s also a proud “Florida Girl” born and raised in Ft. Lauderdale, Fl. and currently resides in Atlanta, GA as a “Georgia Peach”. Hope is known for her creativity, sense of humor and quirky perfectionism. Artist(s) that make her freak out as a music fan: Sheila E., Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis, Quincy Jones.
Fishnet
Morris Day
OS10/11
Prince
The Original 7ven
The Time
Tricky
RELATED POSTS
AOM-archive
October 1, 2011The Original 7ven: Artist of the month October 2011
SoundtracksMusiciansOld School80's R&BLive PerformancesArtist of the MonthFunkR&B
October 26, 2011Artist of the Month: Jesse Johnson of The Original 7ven (Formerly- The Time)
R&BSong of the DayPopJazzArtist of the MonthFunkSoul
October 27, 2011Artist of the Month: Monte Moir of The Original 7ven (Formerly – The Time)
2011R&B2012Indie SoulNeo-SoulArtist of the Month
May 1, 2012Artist of the Month: May: Eric Roberson
Artist of the Month
March 1, 2012Artist of the Month: George Clinton
Artist of the Month
June 1, 2011Artist of the Month – Michael Jackson
Add comment Cancel replyComment Name *
Email *
Website
PrevNext
SHOP
Clothing
Accessories
HELPFUL LINKS
About Us
Our Mission
Meet the Team
Testimonials
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Shipping and Returns Policy
FAQ’s
Privacy Policy
DMCA
CONTACT US
General Contact
Contribute
Submit Music
Subscribe
© 2025 Grown Folks Music. All rights reserved