Donald McIntosh - First Lieutenant, United States Army
Skip to content
Menu
Buried Persons
Visit ANC
ANC History
Book a Ticket
Health
Military Health
Health Issues
Potency
Anaboloxan
C+ Kapseln
Viagra Alternative
Penixmed
CBD
Slimming Products
Diaetoxil
Diaetostat
Figur Kapseln
Reduslim
Medioxil24
Ketoxboom Fruchtgummis
ICG Fatburner
Perfect Body Burner
Prima Kapseln
Diaetolin
Matcha Slim
Die Stoffwechsel Formel
Green Gummies
K2 Tropfen
Liba Kapseln
G7 Green Gummies Avis
Mokka Brenner
KetoXplode
LB Slimming Gummies
Ketoviax
Slimming Gummies erfaring
Liv Pure
Ikaria Juice
Keto-XP
Shape Kapseln
Shape Capsules Avis
Shape Capsules Ervaringen
BioXtrim UK In Test
Reviews
Derila Kissen
HHC
HHC Blüten
HHC Vape
Liver Ignite
Ark Drops
Testoprime
ProDentim
Phentermine Over The Counter
Donald McIntosh – First Lieutenant, United States Army
March 4, 2024March 3, 2024 by Michael Robert Patterson
Donald McIntosh (September 4, 1838 – June 25, 1876) was an officer in the U.S. 7th Cavalry Regiment who was killed at the Battle of Little Big Horn in the Montana Territory.
McIntosh was born in Montreal, Quebec in Canada, the son of James (John) and Charlotte Robinson McIntosh (she was a direct descendant of Red Jacket, a chief of the Six Nations). His father, part of the famed Hudson Bay Company, was killed by Indians when Donald was 14. Young McIntosh lived in various posts of the Hudson Bay Company and later in Fort Vancouver, Washington before moving to Oregon City in 1851 and Portland, Oregon in 1854.
During the American Civil War, he was chief clerk for Brig. Gen. Daniel Rucker. McIntosh married Mary (Molly) Garrett on October 30, 1866 in Baltimore, Maryland. He was appointed as Second Lieutenant, 7th U. S. Cavalry, on August 17, 1867, and was promoted to First Lieutenant on March 22, 1870. In the absence of the company commander, Custer assigned McIntosh to command Company G for the 1876 summer expedition from Fort Abraham Lincoln.
During the early stages of the fight along the Little Big Horn River, Major Marcus Reno took three companies of cavalry and swung through the river valley in an effort to attack the Indian village, while Custer headed off to attack the sprawling camp from the rear. Reno’s attack met with initial resistance, and he ordered his troops to dismount and form a skirmish line across the valley flats for about 15 minutes. Not making any headway, he retreated with his men into a stand of timber along the river, where they formed a defensive perimeter. Shortly after the sudden death of his scout Bloody Knife, Reno lost control of the tactical situation. He ordered a desperate withdrawal back across the river onto the bluffs. G Company was among the last to leave the timber. Indians knocked McIntosh from his horse and quickly killed him. His badly mutilated body was recovered two days later when a relief column arrived.
His body was originally buried where he fell. They were exhumed in July of 1877 and re-interred the following month in Fort Leavenworth National Cemetery. In 1909, the remains were disinterred and shipped to Arlington National Cemetery for permanent burial in Section 1. His widow received a pension of $30 per month until her death on May 12, 1910, when she was buried with him. McIntosh’s brother-in-law, Francis M. Gibson (who survived the Little Big Horn fight) is buried nearby.
Company Commander, Company G, 7th United States Cavalry, he was killed-in-action while serving with Lieutenant Colonel (Brevet Major General) George Armstrong Custer at the Battle of the Little Bighorn on June 25, 1876.
He was originally buried at the site of the battle, but was disinterred in 1877 and shipped to Arlington National Cemetery for permanent burial in Section 1.
His wife, Mary McIntosh, is buried with him.
In the summer of 1995, a finger bone with a ring was dug up on the site of Reno’s battle near McIntosh’s memorial marker. The ring was identified as McIntosh’s wedding band by the inscribed initials of the slain officer and his wife, and the date of their wedding. It now is in a private museum in Garryowen, Montana.
MCINTOSH, DONALD
1ST/LT 7TH US CAV
DATE OF DEATH: 06/25/1876
BURIED AT:   SITE 107-D
ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY
MCINTOSH, MARY W/O DONALD
DATE OF DEATH: 05/12/1910
DATE OF INTERMENT: Unknown
BURIED AT: SECTION W.DIV  SITE 107D
ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY
WIFE OF DONALD MCINTOSH LT 7TH US CAV
NOTE: His brother-in-law, Francis Marion Gibson, Captain, United States Army, is also buried nearly in Arlington National Cemetery.
Donald McIntosh of Canada
Second Lieutenant, 7th U. S. Cavalry, 17 August 1867
First Lieutenant, 22 March 1870
Killed 25 June 1876 in action with Sioux Indians at Little Big Horn River, Montana
Read our general and most popular articles
Phallosan Forte
Anaboloxan
Huusk Messer
Hanfosan
Nutra Digest
SWISS FX
Ketogen Tropfen
Slimymed
Hondrostrong
Slim XR
Elixfett
Reduslim
Medioxil 24
Hondrox
Prima Kapseln
Diaetolin
Cardione
PHC Beauty
C+ Kapseln
Colon Broom
HHC Blüten
Liba Kapseln
Gélules Figur
LB Slimming Gummies
Nucific Bio X4
Diaetoxil
Nuubu
Regener 8
CBD Vital
Nordic Oil
Potencialex
Diaetostat
Figur Kapseln
Viscerex
Prostaphytol
Nutra Prosta
Nutra Flex
Diaetolin
Matcha Slim
Hepafar Forte
Derila Kissen
Exodermin
HHC
HHC Vape
KU2 Cosmetics Hyaluronsäure Serum
Liba Capsules
KetoXplode
Green Gummies
Liver Ignite
Ketoxboom Fruchtgummis
Viagra Alternative
Gundry MD Energy Renew
ProDentim
Phentermine Over The Counter
Michael Robert Patterson
Michael Robert Patterson was born in Arlington and is the son of a former officer of the US Army. So it was no wonder that sooner or later his interests drew him to American history and especially to American military history. Many of his articles can be found on renowned portals like the New York Times, Washingtonpost or Wikipedia.
Reviewed by: Michael Howard
Categories Deceased Persons Tags DECEASED PERSONS
Marie Therese Rossi Cayton – Major, United States ArmyVirginia Lei S. Fye – Military Daughter & Spouse
Leave a Comment Cancel replyCommentName
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Copyright © 2023 by arlingtoncemetery.net
Sitemap
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy