Break Ups: The Sainte Catherines (1999-2011) - ThePunkSite.com
Reviews
Interviews
Gallery
Downloads
Home
About
Reviews
Interviews
Downloads
Search
Break Ups: The Sainte Catherines (1999-2011)
Maddie Brady posted 17th November 2011
News
The Sainte Catherines officially broke-up today after 13 years.  The band opens their statement:
“There are hundreds of reasons for why we are disbanding, some of which even our closes friends would not even understand. Being part of The Sainte Catherines has recently brought more negative energy to our individual lives than positive. We don’t want to become pale copies of what we once were, trying to hold on to the “glory of the past”, or what little we had. Something we are proud of.”
The full statement can be read in both French and English on Facebook page. Click here to read the full statement.
Share this:TwitterFacebook
The Sainte Catherines
Download
Madison Turner Shares New Single & Video “Had Enough”
Phinky posted 3rd March 2025
Richmond, VA's Madison Turner has shared her brand new single and video, Had Enough, that is now available through streaming…
Manchester Punk Festival Releases 38th Compilation
Phinky posted 12th February 2025
Manchester Punk Festival have released the 38th volume of their compilation series ahead of this year’s festival. Manchester Punk Festival Vol. 38 is…
Copenhagen’s Brain Soup Release “Cheese EP”
Phinky posted 10th February 2025
Copenhagen's Brain Soup have released the Cheese EP through streaming platforms and as a name your price download via Bandcamp,…
Manchester Punk Festival Releases 37th Compilation
Phinky posted 23rd January 2025
Manchester Punk Festival have released the 37th volume of their compilation series ahead of this year’s festival. Manchester Punk Festival Vol. 37 is…
View more Downloads
Latest reviews
Raging Speedhorn
Night Wolf - Spinefarm Records
The Wildhearts
Satanic Rites Of The Wildhearts - Snakefarm Records
The Riptides
Burn After Listening - Pirate Press Records
The Bellrays / Emily And The Blackouts
The Concert Lounge, Riverside, CA - 8th February 2025
View more Reviews
About
Submit
Privacy Policy
© ThePunkSite.com 2025 | Built by Kaluna