Jean-Marc Vallée - News - IMDb
MenuMoviesRelease CalendarTop 250 MoviesMost Popular MoviesBrowse Movies by GenreTop Box OfficeShowtimes & TicketsMovie NewsIndia Movie SpotlightTV ShowsWhat's on TV & StreamingTop 250 TV ShowsMost Popular TV ShowsBrowse TV Shows by GenreTV NewsWatchWhat to WatchLatest TrailersIMDb OriginalsIMDb PicksIMDb SpotlightIMDb PodcastsAwards & EventsOscarsSXSW Film FestivalWomen's History MonthSTARmeter AwardsAwards CentralFestival CentralAll EventsCelebsBorn TodayMost Popular CelebsCelebrity NewsCommunityHelp CenterContributor ZonePollsFor Industry ProfessionalsLanguageEnglish (United States)LanguageFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)AllAllWatchlistSign InENFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)Use app
BackBiographyAwardsTriviaFAQIMDbProAll topicsNewsJean-Marc Vallée7 Best Movies Coming to Netflix in January 2025 (With Above 90% Rotten Tomatoes Score)When you purchase through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission.This January, Netflix is bringing you a lot of entertainment, from the highly anticipated second season of The Night Agent to an action comedy film titled Back in Action. However, for the purposes of this article, we are only including the films that are coming to Netflix this month and have a 90% or higher Rotten Tomatoes score. So, check out the seven best films that are coming to Netflix in January 2025 with a 90% or higher Rotten Tomatoes score.Apollo 13 (January 1) Rotten Tomatoes Score: 96% Credit – Universal PicturesApollo 13 is a docudrama film directed by Ron Howard from a screenplay co-written by William Broyles Jr. and Al Reinert. Based on the 1995 non-fiction book Lost Moon by Jim Lovell and Jeffrey Kruger, the 1995 film follows astronauts Lovell, Haise, and Swigert as they find themselves stranded on the moon after...See full article at Cinema Blind12/30/2024by Kulwant SinghCinema BlindThere's Only One Star Trek Movie With An Oscar WinTo date, there have been 13 "Star Trek" feature films, with a 14th movie, "Section 31," scheduled to debut on Paramount+ on January 24, 2025. The films are, many Trekkies would agree, various degrees of good and bad. Some of the "Star Trek" films are among the best sci-fi movies ever made, while others are handily the worst. Many agree that Nicholas Meyer's 1982 film "Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan" is the best one, although J.J. Abrams' 2009 "Star Trek" is the highest-grossing. The four films based on "Star Trek: The Next Generation" -- that is: "Generations," "First Contact," "Insurrection," and "Nemesis" -- are all pretty middling, although many like the Borg action from "First Contact." My personal favorites are Robert Wise's 1979 epic "Star Trek: The Motion Picture," for its cerebral grandiosity, and Meyer's "Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country" for its political bent. The films also fluctuate wildly in mere production quality.See full article at Slash Film11/17/2024by Witney SeiboldSlash FilmHBO offers up disappointing update on Big Little Lies season 3 (though it's far from surprising)Fans of Big Little Lies are still waiting for word on a third season, but there’s a good reason why it’s being delayed!Debuting in 2017, Big Little Lies became an instant hit for HBO. Based on the novel by Liane Moriarty, it focuses on how a murder rocks the town of Monterey, California, although it took a while for the viewers to discover just who the victim was. The death soon opens the door for various secrets to be revealed that show the dark side of this seemingly sunny hamlet.The show stood out thanks to the stunning cast with Nicole Kidman, Laura Dern, Shailene Woodley, Reese Witherspoon, Alexander Skarsgård, Adam Scott and more. It was met with huge critical acclaim, including winning Emmys for Best Limited Series and acting wins for Kidman, Skarsgard and Dern.The show was meant to be a limited series, but the huge...See full article at ShowSnob11/13/2024by Michael WeyerShowSnobWhen is Big Little Lies Season 3 Coming Out? Everything We Know So FarWhen is Big Little Lies Season 3 Coming Out? Everything We Know So Far - Main ImageFans have been waiting for news on the potential season 3 of the hit HBO series Big Little Lies. They are wondering when it will finally come out.For the past few years, there have been rumors that the next installment of Big Little Lies has been in the works. While there is no official greenlight yet, the cast and crew have expressed their interest in another round.What is Big Little Lies Season 3 Going to Be About?So far, there are no details yet regarding the plot that the potential season 3 of Big Little Lies will likely explore.While talking with reporters recently, HBO president Casey Bloys shared that they are waiting for Liane Moriarty's new book to explore ideas for the new season."We’re waiting for the book. We need to read the book [first]," he said.See full article at EpicStream11/13/2024EpicStreamBig Little Lies Season 3: HBO Boss Offers Explanation for Long DelayHBO’s return trip to Monterey remains on hold, according to the premium cabler’s top exec. And now we know why.Though Nicole Kidman trumpeted back in November 2023, “We are bringing you a third [season],” the reality is, “We’re waiting for the book,” HBO president Casey Bloys told reporters Tuesday, referring to author Liane Moriarty’s latest chapter of the story, which is currently being written. “We need to read the book [first].”More from TVLineMare of Easttown Creator Explains Why He Opted to Make a New HBO Series Rather Than Do a Season 2Mark Ruffalo HBO Drama Task Adds...See full article at TVLine.com11/12/2024by Michael AusielloTVLine.comYoung Sheldon's Iain Armitage Gushes About 'Big Little Lies' Co-Stars, Shares His Thoughts on Season 3 & If He'd Return for More (Exclusive Clip)Young Sheldon‘s Iain Armitage is spilling details on Big Little Lies, working with all those amazing actresses, and the potential for a third season.The 16-year-old actor was a guest on the season four premiere episode of “The Art of Kindness with Robert Peterpaul” podcast, and we have an exclusive video clip from his episode. The episode was released today to kick off World Kindness Week.Keep reading to find out more…First, Iain was asked about co-starring in the HBO hit, which aired season 1 in 2017. He portrayed Ziggy Chapman, the son of Shailene Woodley‘s character. The series also starred Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, Zoe Kravitz, Laura Dern, Meryl Streep in season 2, and more.About the all-star cast, he said, “I knew how insane that was and how incredible those people I got to see and act with were, but also, at the same time, I’m still...See full article at Just Jared11/11/2024by Just JaredJust JaredShailene Woodley Almost Turned Down ‘Big Little Lies,’ but Laura Dern Told Her ‘It’s a Massive Mistake’: ‘It Forever Changed My Life’Shailene Woodley scored her first-ever Emmy nomination for playing Jane Chapman on the hit HBO series “Big Little Lies.” But, according to Woodley, she nearly turned down the role.In a recent interview with Vanity Fair, Woodley expressed her excitement over the opportunity to work with Jean-Marc Vallée, calling him an “incredible artist and filmmaker.” However, because Woodley had prior plans to travel to India on a journey of self-exploration, her involvement in the project was initially going to be delayed.That is until Laura Dern stepped in. Woodley recalled how Dern, who played Renata Klein on “Big Little Lies,” ultimately convinced her to take on the role of Jane.“She just said, ‘Listen, I know where you’re at in your life, I’ve been there before too. It’s a lot, this world is an illusion, but what isn’t an illusion is what you love to do.See full article at Variety Film + TV11/2/2024by Andrés BuenahoraVariety Film + TVShailene Woodley Recalls Laura Dern Call That Convinced Her To Do ‘Big Little Lies’: “Forever Changed My Life”With the potential third season of Big Little Lies still up in the air, Shailene Woodley is reflecting on how it all started.The 2x Golden Globe nominee recently gave an update on Season 3 as she recalled how “my sister,” co-star Laura Dern, convinced her to sign on to the HBO series adaptation of Liane Moriarty‘s book, which ran for two seasons from 2017 to 2019.“I got a call, I’ll never forget it. It was November or October of 2015. I was really sick at the time and I was not at all exhausted by acting or the artistry and the craft of storytelling, but I was really exhausted by the act of Hollywood,” she told Vanity Fair. “And I got a call about Big Little Lies because Jean-Marc Vallée — our beautiful creator, director, who has since passed — had wanted me to play Jane. And I was desperate to work with him,...See full article at Deadline Film + TV11/1/2024by Glenn GarnerDeadline Film + TVShailene Woodley Reveals a 'Big Little Lies' Co-Star Convinced Her to Do the Show After Saying NoShailene Woodley nearly didn’t star in Big Little Lies!The 32-year-old actress initially turned it down, but one of her co-stars talked to her and convinced her to join the show, which she is now grateful for.“I got a call, I’ll never forget it. It was November or October of 2015. I was really sick at the time and I was not at all exhausted by acting or the artistry and the craft of storytelling, but I was really exhausted by the act of Hollywood,” she told Vanity Fair. “And I got a call about Big Little Lies because Jean-Marc Vallée — our beautiful creator, director, who has since passed — had wanted me to play Jane. And I was desperate to work with him, I thought he was such an incredible artist and filmmaker.”Keep reading to find out more…However, she was “really dead-set on ‘finding myself.”But,...See full article at Just Jared11/1/2024by Just JaredJust JaredVanessa Paradis on Working With Woody Allen, Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo, Mulls Making a Musical ‘Before I Get Arthritis’Actor and singer Vanessa Paradis, a household name in France, captivated audiences with candid and charismatic reflections on her multifaceted career during a masterclass at the Lumière Film Festival in Lyon.When asked about working alongside French cinema legends Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo in Patrice Leconte’s 1998 action comedy “Half a Chance,” she didn’t beat about the bush.“Jean-Paul Belmondo was always surrounded by people; there was a lot of laughter while Alain Delon was alone – just him and his dogs,” she recalled. “But when the two of them got together, you could tell they were very fond of each other. They were happy to make this film together.”Paradis acknowledged the unique privilege of collaborating with such iconic figures. “I knew how lucky I was back then, but today I realize it even more,” she said, adding with a grin, “I got to spend four months with them,...See full article at Variety Film + TV10/15/2024by Lise PedersenVariety Film + TVOscar-Winning ‘Shakespeare in Love’ Costume Designer Sandy Powell Gets the Museum Treatment“I’ve been thinking for a long time, ‘Wouldn’t it be great to have an exhibition?’” says costume designer Sandy Powell, whose numerous credits include Shakespeare In Love, most of Martin Scorsese’s recent output and the upcoming Snow White. But, for the three-time Oscar and BAFTA winner — and double Costume Designers Guild Award recipient — a career retrospective isn’t necessarily about flexing. She just wants to share.“Because I have quite a large collection of my own costumes, which I’ve been sneakily collecting over the years,” says Powell, with a smile. So, when the Savannah College of Art and Design (Scad) came calling “out of the blue,” she immediately jumped on board.“To get the conversation started, I met Sandy in person a few times, including teatime in London,” says Rafael Gomes, curator and creative director for Scad Fash museums. He then held regular Zoom meetings with...See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News10/14/2024by Fawnia Soo HooThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsReese Witherspoon ‘Waiting’ on ‘Big Little Lies’ Author Liane Moriarty for Season 3: She’s ‘Turning in Something Very Soon’“Big Little Lies” Season 3 is still in the works, but the holdup is Liane Moriarty. Reese Witherspoon revealed as much during a recent interview with E! News.“We’re waiting for Liane Moriarty. She’s going to be turning in something very soon. We’re back to the original author and we’re going to go back to the original characters,” Witherspoon said during a red carpet. “It’s exciting, too, because I think the kids are probably a little bit older now.”Witherspoon admitted that she doesn’t know if the ages of the children will impact this new installment. The star also confirmed that Nicole Kidman is still interested and involved.In fact, it was Kidman who first revealed that a third season was possible. Last November during a Q-and-a at the Cme Group Tour Championship, Kidman said, “I love ‘Big Little Lies’ … We will be bringing you a third one,...See full article at The Wrap10/9/2024by Kayla CobbThe WrapAgatha All Along Episode 3 Riffs On Another Emmy-Winning, Prestige HBO DramaThis post contains spoilers for "Agatha All Along" episode 3.Three episodes in, and it's clear that "Agatha All Along" won't be keeping with its predecessor's TV show satirizing format ... for the most part. After a series premiere that kicked off with a prestige crime drama parody (Kathryn Hahn's Agatha went full "Mare of Easttown" with a dash of "True Detective: Night Country"), the show's second episode mostly played its plot straight, with nary a runtime-spanning pop culture homage in sight. The third episode continues this trend at first, with Agatha's coven setting off on the Witches' Road. But the show's TV-loving writers clearly can't help but throw in a nod to a show or two, as they do when the gang finds a sleek, bougie house in the middle of the road.When the witches step into the house, they're suddenly dressed head to toe in luxury loungewear...See full article at Slash Film9/26/2024by Valerie EttenhoferSlash Film2024 Emmy Predictions: Best TV Movie/Limited Series DirectingSeven years after coming up short on their respective first and second Best TV Movie/Limited Series Directing Emmy bids against Jean-Marc Vallée (“Big Little Lies”), Steven Zaillian and Noah Hawley are involved in a rematch as helmers of the non-continuing programs “Ripley” and “Fargo.” Despite the quality of their new work and their strong Emmys resumes, they are widely expected to once again be bested by a complete first-timer: Weronika Tofilska (“Baby Reindeer”).Tofilska is joined in this directing lineup’s category newcomer majority by Issa López (“True Detective”), Millicent Shelton (“Lessons in Chemistry”), and Gus Van Sant (“Feud”). Counting Zaillian and Hawley, Shelton is the only one in the bunch who has ever earned TV academy recognition for directing a non-limited series, as her very first bid came for “30 Rock” in 2009.In order to determine whether this is truly Tofilska’s race to lose, let’s take...See full article at Gold Derby9/11/2024by Matthew StewartGold Derby7 Addictive Mystery Shows Like ‘The Perfect Couple’ to Watch Next“The Perfect Couple” was the perfect binge-watch, from the wtf credits dance sequence to the even more gleefully camp ending. Nicole Kidman stars in the series and also produced through her Blossom Films banner, making “The Perfect Couple” the latest in a string of recent book adaptations with complex leading roles. Set at an otherwise idyllic Nantucket wedding where a tragic drowning derails the festivities, the series adaptation of Elin Hilderbrand’s best-selling murder mystery also stars Liev Schrieber, Eve Hewson, Meghann Fahy and Dakota Fanning.If you’re craving another addictive mystery series to watch, here’s a curated list of seven shows like “The Perfect Couple” to watch next, from Kidman’s other TV hits to some lesser-known streaming thrillers.“The Undoing” (HBO) “The Undoing”Kidman and director Susanne Bier previously collaborated on HBO’s mystery series “The Undoing,” based on Jean Hanff Korelitz’s 2014 novel “You Should Have Known.See full article at The Wrap9/8/2024by Haleigh FoutchThe Wrap‘Lady in the Lake’ Boss on Not Being Open to Additional Seasons of Limited Series, Jean-Marc Vallée’s Role in Show’s Origin[This story contains spoilers from the Apple TV+ limited series Lady in the Lake, including its finale, “My story.”]The process of turning Laura Lippman’s 2019 novel Lady in the Lake into an Apple TV+ limited series began more than three years ago and involves the series’ late executive producer, Jean-Marc Vallée, who died suddenly in late December 2021.Vallée and producing partner Nathan Ross had read the book, with Ross checking it out quickly after its release thanks to a rave review from Stephen King in The New York Times. Ross told Vallée about the novel, thinking of Natalie Portman for the role of Maddie Schwartz, and Vallée wanted Alma Har’el for the project due to her work on the film Honey Boy, Shia Labeouf’s semiautobiographical drama.Portman too saw and was impressed by Honey Boy.“Jean-Marc and Nathan brought me the book and told me that I should work with Alma, that she was so incredibly talented, and...See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News8/30/2024by Hilary LewisThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsZoë Kravitz Predicts Her ‘Big Little Lies’ Season 3 Character ArcZoë Kravitz is ready to return to Monterey, California.The “Blink Twice” writer/director told People that she is set to reprise her role of Bonnie Carlson in “Big Little Lies” Season 3 — and has some ideas for where the story could go.“I think Bonnie’s divorced — that’s good for her,” Kravitz said.Kravitz’s character is married to Nathan Carlson, played by James Tupper, in the series.While a third season has not been officially announced by HBO, Kravitz added that she knows “nothing” about the status of development but that she is “excited to do it.”“I’m waiting to see, like everybody else, the third season that’s happening … waiting by the phone, waiting for the script to be done,” Kravitz said.The actress and filmmaker previously said in 2022 that she thought the show died with late director Jean-Marc Vallée, who passed away in 2021.“I don’t think it is.See full article at Indiewire8/28/2024by Samantha BergesonIndiewire“I’ll audition for anything”: Before Euphoria Fame, Sydney Sweeney Was Willing to Do Anything to Land a Role in 1 Extremely Dark Show Starring Man of Steel Star Amy AdamsSydney Sweeney is currently raging as one of the greatest and most stunning young talents in Hollywood’s entertainment industry, excelling at her acting chops across multiple genres most efficiently. For one who started around a decade and a half ago as a child actress, she has effortlessly climbed her way to the top following her star-studded breakthrough with Everything Sucks!Sydney Sweeney in Euphoria. | Credits: HBO Max.Soon enough after this, she scored her iconic role of Cassie in Euphoria, and the rest was history. But while she has been riding tremendous waves of fame and success ever since, Sweeney was willing to do anything just to become a part of one extremely dark series that also saw her co-starring alongside Man of Steel actress Amy Adams: Jean-Marc Vallée’s thriller, Sharp Objects.Sydney Sweeney Was Willing to do Anything to Get Into Sharp ObjectsThe late 2010s...See full article at FandomWire8/17/2024by Mahin SultanFandomWireA Chance Encounter With a Hustler Shifts a Suicidal Young Man’s Perspective in Lovell Holder’s ‘You Say Hello’The relaxed pace of Filmmaker Lovell Holder’s drama You Say Hello allows his character to breathe and find their rhythm but without sacrificing any audience engagement and immersion. It’s a tricky line to ride, giving your narrative space without becoming self-indulgent but Holder does it with ease and that’s down to his intimate direction and Writer Daniel Talbott’s expertly crafted screenplay. The creative partners’ story follows a young, suicidal man who makes his way to his family’s beach house with the intention of ending his life but when he invites an escort over, his perspective starts to shift. It’s an honest, sincere film that Dn is delighted to be premiering online today accompanied by our discussion with Holder where he talks through the decision to shift Talbott’s original screenplay into a queer story, tonally drawing influence from Jean-Marc Vallée and Eliza Hittman, and...See full article at Directors Notes8/15/2024by James MaitreDirectors NotesApply to Attend IndieWire & Apple TV+ ‘Lady in the Lake’ Screening, with Alma Har’el Q&a and ReceptionReady to take a dip into some murky waters? On Thursday August 22, IndieWire, in partnership with Apple TV+, will be screening the second-to-last episode of “The Lady in the Lake” at Vidiots Foundation in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Eagle Rock. Following the screening will be a Q&a and reception with the creative force behind the limited series, Alma Har’el. Known for her music videos, as well as her 2019 film “Honey Boy,” a hit at Sundance that year, Har’el is credited as the creator of “Lady in the Lake” having directed every episode and written multiple teleplays based on the novel of the same name by Laura Lippmann.Television Academy voters and guild members are welcome to request an invite here.“Lady in the Lake” tells the story of two women at different points in 1960s Baltimore. One, a Jewish housewife (Natalie Portman), who leaves her abusive husband to become an investigative reporter,...See full article at Indiewire8/6/2024by Harrison RichlinIndiewire‘Lady in the Lake’: Why Showrunner Alma Har’el Made the Adaptation a 2-Hander With Natalie Portman and Moses Ingram“Lady in the Lake” series creator and showrunner Alma Har’el had a vision for the the Apple TV+ series that differed from the 2019 Laura Lippman on which it’s based — one that focused not just on main character Maddie Morgenstern but on the “lady” of the title. That’d be murder victim Cleo (Moses Ingram), who narrates the seven-episode drama.Natalie Portman, who is also a producer on the series, stars as Maddie, while Ingram of “The Queen’s Gambit” fame takes on the expanded role of Cleo amid an enhanced focus on Baltimore’s Black community of the 1960s.“It’s been incredibly challenging to adapt this book, because it’s a book you can’t let go of. It’s gripping, but it does focus much more on Maddie Morgenstern and a lot of very different characters around Baltimore. My wish was to create a two-hander and recreate the world around Cleo,...See full article at The Wrap7/26/2024by Sharon KnolleThe Wrap‘Lady in the Lake’ Co-Stars Natalie Portman and Noah Jupe Bonded Over Portman’s ‘Pretty F*cked Up’ Sense of HumorLooking for your next murder mystery fix? Apple TV+ limited series “Lady in the Lake” is here to save you. Based on Laura Lippman’s novel of the same name, Natalie Portman stars as a 1960s housewife turned investigative reporter as she pursues the case of a missing woman named Cleo Sherwood (Moses Ingram), whose body was found in a city park lake. We caught up with stars Portman, Ingram, and Noah Jupe at the red carpet premiere in New York City on Thursday, July 11.Jean-Marc Vallée, the late Emmy winning director of “Big Littles Lies” and “Sharp Objects,” served as an executive producer on the series, marking his final project before his untimely passing in 2021. “It was devastating that Jean-Marc passed just before we started [filming],” Portman tells IndieWire. “He was the one who brought me the material initially, with Nathan Ross as a partner, and he was the one...See full article at Indiewire7/14/2024by Vincent PerellaIndiewireNatalie Portman stars in trailer for ‘Lady in the Lake’Apple TV+ has unveiled the trailer for its new series ‘Lady in the Lake,’ the upcoming, seven-part limited series starring Academy Award and Golden Globe Award-winner Natalie Portman.’Portman also serves as executive producer, and Emmy Award nominee Moses Ingram, and created and directed by Alma Har’el. “Lady in the Lake” will make its global debut on Apple TV+ with the first two episodes on Friday, July 19, 2024, followed by new episodes every Friday through August 23, 2024.When the disappearance of a young girl grips the city of Baltimore on Thanksgiving 1966, the lives of two women converge on a fatal collision course. Maddie Schwartz (Portman), a Jewish housewife seeking to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as an investigative journalist, and Cleo Johnson (Ingram), a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family. Their disparate lives seem parallel at first, but when Maddie becomes...See full article at HeyUGuys.co.uk6/19/2024by Zehra PhelanHeyUGuys.co.uk‘Lady In The Lake’ Trailer: Natalie Portman Is “Seeking To Shed A Secret Past” In Apple TV+ Thriller Series — UpdateUpdated, 8:40 Am: “I saw you once, Maddie Schwartz. Before any of this began, I saw you. Alive…I was Cleo Johnson, but in my death, I became the Lady in the Lake,” says Moses Ingram’s Cleo in a voiceover at the beginning of the trailer for Apple limited series Lady in the Lake.Natalie Portman stars as Maddie Schwartz, a Jewish housewife seeking to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as an investigative journalist, alongside Ingram’s Cleo Johnson, a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family. Their disparate lives seem parallel at first, but when Maddie becomes fixated on Cleo’s mystifying death, a chasm opens that puts everyone around them in danger, per the official synopis.Also starring in the series are Y’lan Noel, Brett Gelman, Byron Bowers, Noah Jupe, Josiah Cross, Mikey Madison and Pruitt Taylor Vince.See full article at Deadline Film + TV6/18/2024by Rosy CorderoDeadline Film + TVLady in the Lake trailer takes Natalie Portman on a dark psychological journeyAppleTV+ has just released the trailer for their upcoming psychological horror series, Lady in the Lake. Lady in the Lake is a seven-part limited series starring Academy Award and Golden Globe Award-winner Natalie Portman, who also serves as executive producer, and Emmy Award nominee Moses Ingram, and created and directed by Alma Har’el. Lady in the Lake will make its global debut on Apple TV+ with the first two episodes on Friday, July 19, 2024, followed by new episodes every Friday through August 23, 2024.The official synopsis reads,“When the disappearance of a young girl grips the city of Baltimore on Thanksgiving 1966, the lives of two women converge on a fatal collision course. Maddie Schwartz (Portman), a Jewish housewife seeking to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as an investigative journalist, and Cleo Johnson (Ingram), a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family. Their...See full article at JoBlo.com6/18/2024by EJ TangonanJoBlo.comLady in the Lake Trailer Featuring Portman and IngramToday, Apple TV+ unveiled the trailer for Lady in the Lake, the upcoming, seven-part limited series starring Academy Award and Golden Globe Award winner Natalie Portman, who also serves as executive producer, and Emmy Award nominee Moses Ingram. Alma Har’el created and directed the series.Lady in the Lake will make its global debut on Apple TV+ with the first two episodes on Friday, July 19, 2024, followed by new episodes every Friday through August 23, 2024.When the disappearance of a young girl grips the city of Baltimore on Thanksgiving 1966, the lives of two women converge on a fatal collision course.Maddie Schwartz (Portman) is a Jewish housewife seeking to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as an investigative journalist, and Cleo Johnson (Ingram) is a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family.Their disparate lives seem parallel at first, but when Maddie becomes...See full article at Vital Thrills6/18/2024by Mirko ParlevlietVital Thrills‘Lady in the Lake’ Trailer Wraps Natalie Portman and Moses Ingram Into a Menacing MysteryApple TV+ released a trailer for “Lady in the Lake,” the upcoming limited series based on Laura Lippman’s novel of the same name.The thriller series follows the convergence of two women’s lives after the Thanksgiving 1966 disappearance of a young girl in Baltimore. Jewish housewife Maddie Schwartz (Natalie Portman) seeks to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as an investigative journalist while Cleo Johnson (Moses Ingram), a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family. When Maddie becomes fixated on Cleo’s mystifying death, everyone around them is suddenly put in danger. The cast also includes Y’lan Noel, Brett Gelman, Byron Bowers, Noah Jupe, Josiah Cross, Mikey Madison, Pruitt Taylor Vince and Dylan Arnold.“I saw you once, Maddie Schwartz,” Ingram’s Cleo narrates in the trailer. “Before any of this began, I saw you. Alive, I was Cleo Johnson.See full article at Variety Film + TV6/18/2024by Selome HailuVariety Film + TV‘Lady in the Lake’ Trailer: Natalie Portman Tries to Untangle Moses Ingram’s Murder in Baltimore-Set Journalism DramaNatalie Portman is a 1960s housewife turned investigative reporter for the Apple TV+ adaptation of novel “Lady in the Lake.”Portman stars as Maddie Schwartz, a Jewish divorcée seeking to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as a journalist within a sexist newsroom. The murder of Cleo Johnson (Moses Ingram), a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family, becomes a news story that Maddie just can’t let go of until justice is served.“Anora” breakout Mikey Madison, Y’lan Noel, Brett Gelman, Dylan Arnold, Byron Bowers, Noah Jupe, Josiah Cross, and Pruitt Taylor Vince also star.Lupita Nyong’o was originally set to play Cleo, however she exited the project due to unknown circumstances. “Obi-Wan Kenobi” breakout Ingram was cast as Nyong’o’s replacement.Alma Har’el directs the limited series centered on the price women pay for chasing their dreams, as the official synopsis teased.See full article at Indiewire6/18/2024by Samantha BergesonIndiewireNicole Kidman Says She “Went Crazy” After Filming Expats; Reveals Why She Threw A Rock At A Window When Filimg The Big Little Lies: “I Was Kind Of Pissed Off”Nicole Kidman Opens Up About Playing Challenging Roles. (Photo Credit – Instagram)Nicole Kidman recently opened up about the psychological effects of playing challenging roles. The Hollywood Reporter’s Drama Actress Roundtable recently featured Nicole Kidman, Brie Larson, Anna Sawai, and Naomi Watts. During the discussion, the actresses weighed in on the stress of taking on challenging roles.During the Hollywood Reporter interview, Oscar winner Nicole Kidman revealed that after a rough day filming Big Little Lies, she threw a rock through a locked door, breaking its window. During the roundtable discussion, Jodie Foster asked Nicole Kidman about the incident.In response, Nicole Kidman revealed she was so “pissed off” after filming the show that covered domestic violence that she took out her frustration at a locked door with a window. The actress recalled, “I threw a rock because [the door] was locked, and I couldn’t get in. I’d never done that in my life.See full article at KoiMoi6/4/2024by Anushree MadappaKoiMoiFor Naomi Watts, ‘Feud’ Proved a Great Actress Is Even Better When ProducingIn 2014, Naomi Watts voiced an animated version of herself in the “BoJack Horseman” episode “One Trick Pony.” The Watts in Hollywoo — the “BoJack” stand-in for the entertainment industry’s epicenter, inhabited mostly by anthropomorphic animals — is starring opposite BoJack in a biopic about his frenemy, Mr. Peanutbutter. She appears on set preparing to play Diane, a burgeoning writer. The meta joke is the actress accepted the part to get a break from emotionally draining, praiseworthy performances.“I just keep getting pigeonholed as these complex characters in highly acclaimed movies,” the animated Watts bemoans to a character who is a parody of host Ryan Seacrest (A Ryan Seacrest Type). “For once, I would just love to phone it in and play a two-dimensional girl in a rom-com with no inner life of her own. That’s kind of the reason I got into this business.”Ten years later, that tongue-in-cheek guest appearance now feels almost prophetic.See full article at Indiewire5/16/2024by Carlos AguilarIndiewire‘Lady in the Lake’ First Look: Natalie Portman Is a ’60s Housewife Turned Investigative JournalistNatalie Portman is taking a page out of her “Jackie” days and venturing back to the 1960s — this time, to investigate a murder.The Oscar winner leads Apple TV+ limited series “Lady in the Lake,” based on Laura Lippman’s novel of the same name. “Honey Boy” filmmaker Alma Har’el penned the pilot and will co-write the rest of the series with Dre Ryan (“The Man in the High Castle”); Har’el will also direct.Portman plays housewife-turned-reporter Maddie Schwartz as she pursues the case of a missing woman named Cleo Sherwood (Moses Ingram), whose body was found in a city park lake. As Cleo’s ghost follows Maddie on her quest to uncover the mystery of her death, the two women’s lives become intertwined. The first-look photo of the series is above.Y’lan Noel, Brett Gelman, Byron Bowers, Noah Jupe, Josiah Cross, Mikey Madison, and Pruitt Taylor Vince also star.See full article at Indiewire5/8/2024by Samantha BergesonIndiewireLady in the Lake First Look Featuring Natalie PortmanApple TV+ today unveiled a first look at Lady in the Lake, the upcoming seven-part limited series starring Academy Award and Golden Globe Award-winner Natalie Portman, who also serves as executive producer, and Emmy Award nominee Moses Ingram.Lady in the Lake will make its global debut on Apple TV+ with the first two episodes on Friday, July 19, 2024. New episodes will be added every Friday through August 23, 2024.When the disappearance of a young girl grips the city of Baltimore on Thanksgiving 1966, the lives of two women converge on a fatal collision course. Maddie Schwartz (Portman), a Jewish housewife seeking to shed a secret past and reinvent herself as an investigative journalist, and Cleo Sherwood (Ingram), a mother navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore while struggling to provide for her family.Their disparate lives seem parallel at first, but when Maddie becomes fixated on Cleo’s mystifying death, a chasm...See full article at Vital Thrills5/8/2024by Mirko ParlevlietVital Thrills‘Lady in the Lake’ Creator on ‘Reimagining’ the Bestselling Mystery With Natalie Portman, Approaching Its Massive Twist and Recasting Cleo (Exclusive)Apple TV+’s highly anticipated adaptation of Laura Lippman’s mystery novel “Lady in the Lake” — starring Natalie Portman — will premiere with the first two episodes on July 19, the streamer announced Wednesday.The seven-part limited series follows a bored Jewish housewife (Portman) in the 1960s, who divorces her husband and moves to Baltimore to work as an investigative journalist. She soon becomes fixated on the perplexing death of Cleo Johnson (Moses Ingram), a mother who struggled to provide for her family while navigating the political underbelly of Black Baltimore.The book was brought to famed director Alma Har’el by the late Jean-Marc Vallée and his producing partner, Nathan Ross; she jumped at the chance to adapt the complex novel, which has made headlines since its straight-to-series pickup three years ago.In 2022, Variety broke the news that Lupita Nyong’o, who was initially cast as Cleo, had exited the show. Ingram stepped in shortly after,...See full article at Variety Film + TV5/8/2024by Emily LongerettaVariety Film + TVNicole Kidman’s AFI Life Achievement Award Ceremony Highlighted by Keith Urban’s Story of Recovery and Meryl Streep’s Witty AdorationHollywood legends gathered Saturday night to celebrate Nicole Kidman as she received the prestigious AFI Life Achievement Award, the highest honor bestowed by the American Film Institute.The ceremony featured tributes from Kidman’s esteemed peers and collaborators, including Meryl Streep, Zoe Saldaña, Naomi Watts, Zac Efron, David E. Kelley, Morgan Freeman, Keith Urban, Aaron Sorkin and Reese Witherspoon. The audience also included Lee Daniels, Mimi Leder and “Expats” creator and director Lulu Wang along with Kidman’s co-stars Ji-young and Sarayu Blue. The 56-year-old Oscar-winning actress expressed her deep gratitude for her distinguished career.Kidman was visibly moved by the accolades from numerous distinguished colleagues, including Miles Teller, who was personally cast by Kidman in his first-ever film role “Rabbit Hole ” which was also her first produced feature. However, her husband, Keith Urban, shared intimate details about their life together, highlighting when he entered rehabilitation for substance abuse five months into their marriage,...See full article at Variety Film + TV4/28/2024by Clayton DavisVariety Film + TVNicole Kidman Might Have Never Said Yes to Big Little Lies Season 3 Without Her Daughter’s VerdictThere were countable limited series back in the 2010s that captivated audiences and Big Little Lies by David E. was one of them. Both seasons have garnered much applause and fans demanded a third season.Nicole Kidman in Big Little LiesNicole Kidman, the Oscar winner played the role of Celeste Wright in the series that earned her an Emmy. Giving her fans some good news, she said in late 2023 that work on the third season of the series has begun.Suggested“There has to be a third”: Nicole Kidman’s Daughter Pushed Her for Big Little Lies Season 3 Despite Show Leaving Her Wrecked After an Extremely Violent SceneHowever, for that, we need to thank Kidman’s daughter Sunday Rose. She was the one who pushed her mother for more of it after watching the show.Nicole Kidman’s Daughter Encouraged Her to Do Big Little Lies Season 3In an interview with Variety,...See full article at FandomWire3/24/2024by Prantik Prabal RoyFandomWireOscars Curse? Matthew McConaughey, Halle Berry and 5 More Oscar Winners Whose Careers Took a Nosedive After Winning the OscarThe 96th Academy Award Ceremony is approaching, and the buzz around the Oscars has evolved to an astounding height. Looking back at history, the Oscars have created several significant moments elevating actor’s career. However, all stars don’t have the same blessing.Matthew McConaughey in Dallas Buyers ClubWho wouldn’t want to win an Oscar? The award has been one of the most prestigious accolades for achievement in almost every category related to movies. However, in another turn of events, winning an Oscar may not be as good as you might think. An idea called the Oscars Curse has altered the fate of several celebrities, including Matthew McConaughey and Halle Berry.Oscars Curse Victims, Matthew McConaughey, and Halle Berry Are Among ProminentHalle Berry in Monster’s BallSeveral actors have witnessed the downfall of their careers after winning an Oscar. Of course, any filmmaker and actor or anyone...See full article at FandomWire3/9/2024by Lachit RoyFandomWire‘One Summer,’ ‘Ru’ Lead Canada’s Diverse Slate at European Film MarketQuebec’s recent domestic box office charmers “One Summer” and “Ru” lead Canada’s diverse acquisition slate of 17 features — many coming off strong, award-speckled festival runs — screening for buyers at the Berlinale’s European Film Market.More than half the 20 Canadian titles screening across the EFM and festival are Quebec productions, a ratio that reflects the resilience of the province’s film industry, not to mention the next wave of filmmaking talent and the return of Quebec audiences to cinemas.“Ru,” an adaptation of Vietnamese-born Canadian novelist Kim Thúy’s prize-winning, widely translated 2009 novel, is nearing the $2 million mark in Canada and is the latest in a string of Quebec films to earn more than $1 million at the domestic box office in 2023.“Local success doesn’t necessarily mean international distribution, but I have the feeling that it’s possible with ‘Ru,’ which is a universal story, very faithful to the book,...See full article at Variety Film + TV2/15/2024by Jennie PunterVariety Film + TV"They Are Working Diligently": Big Little Lies Season 3 Update From A Hopeful Laura DernLaura Dern is hopeful about the possibility of a Big Little Lies season 3, as executive producers Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon are actively working on it. Despite the enthusiasm from Dern, there have been few updates on the potential new season, and HBO has not yet given it the green light. The show faces obstacles such as the loss of director Jean-Marc Vallée and the challenge of reuniting the star-studded cast, but Dern's statement suggests that the team is dedicated to making season 3 a reality.Laura Dern has shared an update on Big Little Lies season 3. The dark comedy is based on Liane Moriarty's thriller novel of the same name and follows five mothers whose picturesque lives in Monterey, California begin to unravel when they get entangled in a murder mystery. Initially, the show was meant to be a limited series, but its critical acclaim resulted in further episodes.See full article at ScreenRant2/5/2024by Rachel UlatowskiScreenRant‘Big Little Lies’ Hopes For A Third Season Still Linger, Laura Dern SaysLaura Dern remains hopeful about a return of Big Little Lies for a third season.While doing press for her new show, Apple TV+’s Palm Royale, Dern told EW that she is encouraged by reports that Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman are actively planning season 3 of the HBO series.“I can tell you that all of us who are involved in it would never imagine a better time,” Dern said. “We love each other so much and would have the time of our life being back together, and we love our characters so much. I truly know what you know But I know that it is something that they are working diligently at dreaming up, and I sure hope it comes to fruition.”Witherspoon and Kidman have confirmed that they are working on the series, an easy task since they live five minutes from each other.The death of the show’s director,...See full article at Deadline Film + TV2/3/2024by Bruce HaringDeadline Film + TVKathryn Newton Talks ‘Lisa Frankenstein,’ Young Avengers, ‘Big Little Lies 3’ and ‘Freaky Death Day’Kathryn Newton’s feature film career continues to bear fruit.Just five years ago, she was a series regular on two hit television series, HBO’s Big Little Lies and Netflix’s The Society, but when the pandemic played a role in the un-renewal of the latter, Newton wasted no time amassing an impressive slate of films. First up was Christopher Landon’s well-received slasher comedy, Freaky, that made three times its $6 million production budget during the height of the pandemic. She then followed that up with Ian Samuels’ hidden time-loop gem, The Map of Tiny Perfect Things, on Amazon Prime Video. In between these two films, she also received a career-altering offer to join the Marvel Cinematic Universe as Ant-Man’s daughter, Cassie Lang, beginning with Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023) and potentially a Young Avengers movie at some point.That brings us to her busy 2024, as Newton made...See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News2/1/2024by Brian DavidsThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsBig Little Lies Season 3: Cast, Trailer, Release Date and Everything Else We KnowHBO’s Big Little Lies was never supposed to be more than a limited series.But when you have a cast as talented as this in one place and creatives behind the screen who can capitalize on what makes the show work, expansion makes sense.But if you had told us in 2019, when Big Little Lies Season 2 took its final bow, that five years later, another season could very well be on the way, we would have been skeptical.Yet, here we are.Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman are bonafide TV stars and film stars, and like many other film actors, they’ve discovered the creative freedom of working on TV.What is Big Little Lies About?Big Little Lies Season 1 introduced us to the Monterey Five, a group of women living in Monterey who become friends through their shared experiences.Through the unlikely friendships of five women and those in their orbit,...See full article at TVfanatic1/23/2024by Carissa PavlicaTVfanaticHBO’s Casey Bloys on ‘Big Little Lies’ Season 3, How Pedro Pascal’s Injury Impacts ‘The Last of Us’ and Whether ‘Euphoria’ Will End Next SeasonAs the possibility of a third season of “Big Little Lies” picks up steam, HBO and Max content chairman/CEO Casey Bloys is ready for it. Bloys confirmed to Variety that he has heard “a little bit about the idea. I think it could be great.”“Big Little Lies” stars and executive producers Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman have teased the prospect of a new season of the series — which last aired in 2019 — while speaking to reporters in recent weeks. At the 81st Golden Globes this month, Witherspoon told Variety’s Marc Malkin that “We are working on it. Nic and I have been working on it a lot.”Bloys said that he believes that Witherspoon and Kidman have been in touch with “Big Little Lies” author Liane Moriarty about ways to expand the storyline and characters. Bloys also said he expects that David E. Kelley, who adapted Moriarty’s...See full article at Variety Film + TV1/17/2024by Michael SchneiderVariety Film + TVThis HBO Miniseries Is an Underrated Gothic ThrillerIt shouldn’t be too hard to believe there was a time before and after Gone Girl, the novel-turned-movie that upended how women are treated in crime fiction thanks to author Gillian Flynn, who created the iconic and deadly Amy Dunne, played by Rosamund Pike in the film adaptation. The book and David Fincher’s film are not standard murder mysteries, and the author did the same in her 2006 debut novel, Sharp Objects, which became a 2018 HBO miniseries. The murder mystery is a jumping-off point before the story gets more disturbing. All the episodes are directed by Jean-Marc Vallée, who brings his atmospheric visual style that is rounded out with a terrific cast, led by a devastating Amy Adams. Before Amy Dunne’s manipulation and rage, there was Camille Preaker, who gets swallowed up in a personal hell.See full article at Collider.com1/16/2024by Chris SasaguayCollider.com7 Best Movies Like ‘Good Grief’ To Watch If You Loved the FilmSchitt’s Creek is still in everybody’s mind and after Dan Levy‘s brilliant comedic role, he is back with a Netflix tear-jerker film Good Grief that will surely make you cry and maybe laugh at a few moments. Written and directed by Levy, the film revolves around Marc who recently lost his husband, and in the following years, he is still not able to get over the grief. Then an unexpected turn of events forces him to take a trip to Paris where he goes with his friends Sophie and Thomas. Besides Levy’s leading role, Good Grief also stars Ruth Negga, Himesh Patel, Luke Evans, David Bradley, and Arnaud Valois. So, if you loved Levy’s emotional drama film here are some similar movies you might want to check out next.Demolition (Rent on Prime Video) Credit – Searchlight PicturesDemolition storyline and characters are the most similar to...See full article at Cinema Blind1/11/2024by Kulwant SinghCinema Blind‘Big Little Lies’ Season 3 Is Inching Closer to RealityBig Little Lies may indeed get a third season at HBO.Sources tell The Hollywood Reporter that stars and exec producers Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman are in the nascent stages of developing an idea for a potential third season of their Emmy-winning anthology-turned-ongoing drama series.Sources familiar with the series say Witherspoon and Kidman have an idea to center the season on that they both are excited about and are working in their capacity as producers to put together a formal pitch before taking it to HBO. Those same sources say HBO has yet to formally hear the plans but have been briefed on the larger concept. No deals are in place and a pitch has yet to happen though all parties are excited given the franchise’s penchant for awards.Season 1 of the series based on Liane Moriarty’s best-seller was created and written by prolific producer David E. Kelley...See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News1/8/2024by Lesley GoldbergThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsShailene Woodley Explains How Big Little Lies Season 3 Delay Opens The Door For Potential Story ArcThe delay in Big Little Lies season 3 allows for the exploration of how the characters have grown up, per Shailene Woodley. The focus could shift to the younger actors. Taking the show in an unexpected direction and avoiding backlash from season 2 may be a good approach for season 3.Big Little Lies star Shailene Woodley explains how season 3's delay opens up the door for a new story arc. One of HBO's biggest recent hits, created by David E. Kelley and based on the novel of the same name, Big Little Lies has maintained a lot of interest since its premiere in 2017 debut because of its sharp scripts and a starry cast that included Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, Laura Dern, Zoë Kravitz, and Woodley. Late last year, Kidman gave an update saying the Emmy-winning drama will return. But since then, there's been no official response from HBO about the status of the series.See full article at ScreenRant1/3/2024by Abdullah Al-GhamdiScreenRantShailene Woodley Talks 'Big Little Lies' Season 3, Reveals What She'd Want for Her CharacterShailene Woodley is speaking on the possibility of Big Little Lies season 3!The HBO series, based on the novel of the same name, aired two seasons in 2017 and 2019. Shailene co-starred with Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Zoë Kravitz, Laura Dern, Adam Scott, Alexander Skarsgård, and more.In November, Nicole seemingly revealed that Big Little Lies season 3 is in the works, though an official confirmation is yet to surface.Keep reading to find out more…During an interview with Harper’s Bazaar, published on Friday (December 22), Shailene was asked about the possibility of reuniting with her Big Little Lies castmates and what she would be most excited to explore next with her character Jane Chapman.“It’s been a dream for us [to do a third season]. Working together on that show was so many things, and the way that it affected so many people around the world and the way that it affected us—that was something none of us expected,...See full article at Just Jared12/23/2023by Just JaredJust Jared“If You Know the Song, and Your Mother Knows the Song, You Can’t Afford the Song”: Music Supervisor Susan Jacobs Demystifies the ProfessionOver her two-decade-long career, music supervisor and self-confessed music nerd Susan Jacobs has worked with directors such as Robert Altman, Jean-Marc Vallée and Spike Lee. She has worked on notable TV series and films such as I, Tonya, American Hustle, and Little Miss Sunshine. She won the first ever Emmy award for music supervision for her work on Vallée’s Big Little Lies, where she worked without a composer, handpicking specific sounds and musical artists for each character in an attempt to mirror the intricacies of their personal lives. On another Vallée project, Sharp Objects, Jacobs exhibited this aptitude again, building […]The post “If You Know the Song, and Your Mother Knows the Song, You Can’t Afford the Song”: Music Supervisor Susan Jacobs Demystifies the Profession first appeared on Filmmaker Magazine.See full article at Filmmaker Magazine-Director Interviews12/19/2023by Arrow PeretzFilmmaker Magazine-Director Interviews“If You Know the Song, and Your Mother Knows the Song, You Can’t Afford the Song”: Music Supervisor Susan Jacobs Demystifies the ProfessionOver her two-decade-long career, music supervisor and self-confessed music nerd Susan Jacobs has worked with directors such as Robert Altman, Jean-Marc Vallée and Spike Lee. She has worked on notable TV series and films such as I, Tonya, American Hustle, and Little Miss Sunshine. She won the first ever Emmy award for music supervision for her work on Vallée’s Big Little Lies, where she worked without a composer, handpicking specific sounds and musical artists for each character in an attempt to mirror the intricacies of their personal lives. On another Vallée project, Sharp Objects, Jacobs exhibited this aptitude again, building […]The post “If You Know the Song, and Your Mother Knows the Song, You Can’t Afford the Song”: Music Supervisor Susan Jacobs Demystifies the Profession first appeared on Filmmaker Magazine.See full article at Filmmaker Magazine - Blog12/19/2023by Arrow PeretzFilmmaker Magazine - BlogBig Little Lies Season 3 in the Works at HBOHBO is delving back into the world of the Monterey Five.Nicole Kidman has revealed that Big Little Lies Season 3 is in the works.The actress opened up about her favorite roles in a video posted on the Deuxmoi Instagram account."I loved Big Little Lies because it sort of came along at a time in my life when I had my children and I was thinking I was going to retire," she said."And then this situation came along, where Reese Witherspoon and I were able to produce that show and create that show."And then all of you watched it and made it a massive success."We will be bringing you a third one, just Fyi," the actress and EP added, confirming that we'll be headed back into that universe in due course.Big Little Lies launched in 2017 as a limited series with Kidman starring alongside Reese Witherspoon,...See full article at TVfanatic11/20/2023by Paul DaillyTVfanatic50 moreIMDb.com, Inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, Tweets, or blog posts. This content is published for the entertainment of our users only. The news articles, Tweets, and blog posts do not represent IMDb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. Please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy.
More from this person
More to exploreRecently viewedYou have no recently viewed pages
Get the IMDb appSign in for more accessSign in for more accessFollow IMDb on socialGet the IMDb appFor Android and iOSHelpSite IndexIMDbProBox Office MojoLicense IMDb DataPress RoomAdvertisingJobsConditions of UsePrivacy PolicyYour Ads Privacy ChoicesIMDb, an Amazon company© 1990-2025 by IMDb.com, Inc.Back to top