Handwriting Analysis Expert Kathleen Dickinson: online handwriting analysis, graphoanalysis, handwriting analysis and free handwriting analysis samples
Services-Personal
Services-Professional
Testimonials
Analysis Samples
Article Archive
About Kathleen
Links
About Kathleen
Kathleen M. Dickinson, CG, operated Dynamic Impressions in Reno, Nevada for eleven years before relocating to Southern Nevada in 1999.  She has  experience in government, the private sector, and non-profit organizations.  She has immersed herself in different cultures and personalities during extended trips to the Middle East, East Africa, Europe and the Caribbean.
In addition to working with individual and corporate clients, Kathleen writes articles on Graphoanalysis (handwriting analysis) and related subjects. She has taught classes for Truckee Meadows Community College Institute of Business and Industry (Reno) and for the Small Business Development Center at Northern Nevada Community College in Elko, Nevada. Kathleen has appeared on several radio programs discussing the benefits of handwriting analysis and Hypnotherapy.
Kathleen has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology and she is Certified in Hypnotherapy, Graphoanalysis and Graphology.
Kathleen is active in the community and has organized and conducted seminars on a variety of subjects such as, energy conservation, the legislative process and recycling. She has served as Vice-President of the International Graphoanalysis Society, Nevada Chapter and she was President of the chapter from 1990 through 1992. She was one of the founding members of Western Nevada Clean Communities (now known as Keep Truckee Meadows Beautiful) and served on that board from 1989 through 1995. She served on the Board of the Zonta Club of Greater Reno from 1996 through 1999, and served as President 1998 to 1999.  As Special Projects Coordinator for the Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada from1999 through 2001, she oversaw projects for the Alliance for Better Campaigns (Washington, D.C.), the Ford Foundation (New York, NY) and the Access Project (Boston, MA).
In recent years, Kathleen has served as President of the League Of Women Voters, Las Vegas Valley, and Vice-Chair of the Nevada Coalition of Suicide Prevention. She has also served on the board of the Nevada Conservation League Education Fund.
From 2009 to 2024 Kathleen coordinated law related "hands on" educational programs for Elementary through High School students throughout Nevada.
Kathleen believes: "The better we know ourselves, the better our relationships and our lives will be.  Self-knowledge enhances compassion and listening skills.  Good communication is basic to a healthy and productive community."
Back to top
Dynamic Impressions
Post Office Box 90852
Henderson, Nevada   89009-0852
Phone:  (702) 419 4555email:  kathleenmdickinson@gmail.com
All Rights Reserved | Dynamic Impressions-Kathleen Dickinson, CGA                                                       Created By Greg Stover