Researcher Handbook | Office of the Vice President for Research | The University of Iowa
Skip to main content
The University of Iowa
University of Iowa
Office of the Vice President for Research
Researcher Handbook
Search
Submit Search
Search
Site Main Navigation
AboutTable of ContentsResearcher Handbook1. What should I do before I start?1a. Research Navigation Tool for New Faculty and Research Scientists1b: Identifying research space1c: Obtaining regulatory approvals and requirements1d. Transferring animals1e. Transferring funding1f: Identifying contacts1g: Core facilities and resources1h. Obtaining licenses for controlled substances1i. Transferring human subjects research data or specimens2. Regulatory Requirements2a. Disclosing financial interests related to research2b. Working with animals2c. Working with human subjects in research2d. Complying with export control regulations2e. Working with biological materials / organisms2f. Working with chemicals2g. Working with radioactive materials / radiation producing machines2h. Disposing of chemical, radioactive & biohazardous waste2i. Serving on committees2j. Working with Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) materials3. Applying for Grants and Contracts3a. Finding and asking for funds3b. Resources for Grant Development3c. Preparing, Routing, and Submitting a Proposal3d. Budget Considerations3e. Working with industry4. Managing Awards4a. Fiscal responsibility4b. Spending / Apply costs4c. Outgoing subawards4d. Equipment and other capital assets4e. Reporting4f. Changes to the project4g. Public access5. Conducting Research Responsibly5a. Responsible Conduct of Research Training5b. Research Misconduct5c. Authorship and publication5d. Shared Credit5e. Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. §4712)5f. Confidentiality and Privacy5g. Intellectual property5h. Data Management: Research Records6. Staff Hiring and Supervision6a. Getting Started6b. Orienting you and your staff6c. Performance management6d. Professional growth and career development7. Leaving or Transferring Funds / Specimens out of the UI7a. Closing the laboratory space7b. Closing animal research studies7c. Closing human research studies7d. Transfer of grants to another institution7e. Transfer of biological specimens and protocols to another institution7f. Data ownership and transferCommonly-Used AcronymsSuggestions / Feedback
Breadcrumb
Home
Table of Contents
Researcher Handbook
Researcher Handbook - Table of Contents
Body
The Researcher Handbook serves as a roadmap for researchers as they navigate the complex research environment at the University of Iowa. This guide provides instructions for getting started, applying for the appropriate approvals, and conducting research that is compliant with relevant government laws and regulations and UI policies and procedures.
1.  What should I do before I start?
a.  Getting started with the Research Navigation Tool
b.  Identifying research space
c.  Obtaining regulatory approvals and requirements
d.  Transferring animals
e.  Transferring funding
f.   Identifying contacts
g.  Core facilities and resources
h.  Obtaining licenses for controlled substances
i.  Transferring human subjects research data or specimens
2.  Regulatory Requirements
a.  Disclosing financial interests related to research
b.  Working with animals
c.  Working with human subjects in research
d.  Complying with research and export control regulations
e.  Working with biological materials / organisms
f.  Working with chemicals
g. Working with radioactive materials / radiation producing machines
h. Disposing of chemical, radioactive & biohazardous waste
i.  Serving on committees
j.  Working with Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) materials
3.  Applying for Grants and Contracts
a.  Finding and asking for funds
b.  Staff resources for grant development support
c.  Proposal preparation and routing
d.  Budget considerations
e.  Working with industry
4.  Managing Awards
a.  Fiscal responsibility
b.  Spending / Apply costs
c.  Outgoing Subawards
d.  Equipment and other capital assets
e.  Reporting
f.  Changes to the project
g.  Public access
h.  Close-out
5.  Conducting Research Responsibly
a.  Training in the responsible conduct of research
b.  Research misconduct
c.  Authorship and publication
d.  Shared credit
e.  Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. §4712)
f.  Confidentiality and privacy
g. Intellectual property
h. Data management: research records
6.  Staff Hiring and Supervision
a.  Getting started
b.  Orienting you and your staff
c.  Performance management
d.  Professional growth and career development
7.  Leaving or Transferring Funds / Specimens out of the UI
a.  Closing the laboratory space
b.  Closing animal research studies
c.  Closing human research studies
d.  Transfer of grants to another institution
e.  Transfer of biological specimens and protocols to another institution
f.  Data ownership and transfer
If you have suggestions for new content or comments about existing content, please email research-webmaster@uiowa.edu(link sends e-mail).
The University of Iowa
University of Iowa
Researcher Handbook
Office of the Vice President for Research
200 S. Capitol Street
2660 UCC
Iowa City, IA 52242
Phone: 319-335-2119
Admin Login
Footer tertiary
Thank a staff member
© 2025 The University of Iowa
Privacy Notice
UI Nondiscrimination Statement
Accessibility