VOIVOD Nothingface reviews
Progarchives.com has always (since 2002) relied on banners ads to cover web hosting fees and all.Please consider supporting us by giving monthly PayPal donations  and help keep PA fast-loading and ad-free forever.
HOME
FORUMS
PROG ROCK GUIDES
LOG IN
PROG RADIOS
PROG LINKS
FAQ
ABOUT US
PROG SUB-GENRES
Canterbury Scene
Crossover Prog
Eclectic Prog
Experimental/Post Metal
Heavy Prog
Indo-Prog/Raga Rock
Jazz Rock/Fusion
Krautrock
Neo-Prog
Post Rock/Math Rock
Prog Folk
Progressive Electronic
Progressive Metal
Psychedelic/Space Rock
RIO/Avant-Prog
Rock Progressivo Italiano
Symphonic Prog
Tech/Extreme Prog Metal
Zeuhl
Various Genres/Artists
Prog Related
Proto-Prog
PROG ARTISTS
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
#
VA: SAMPLERS
VA: CONCEPT ALBUMS
VA: TRIBUTES
ALL
MISC
Top Prog Albums (all-time)
Top 2025 Albums
Top 2024 Albums
Top DVDs
Videos
Interviews
Gigs Reviews
Active Topics
Review,
Video
BUY PROG MUSIC
Doug Larson's Imports  (5% off on orders over $125, 10% over $300, Free shipping over $135)
discographies
forums
NOTHINGFACE
Voivod • Tech/Extreme Prog Metal
From Progarchives.com, the ultimate progressive rock music website
4.24
| 379 ratings | 35 reviews | 47% 5 stars
Excellent addition to anyprog rock music collection
Write a review
Buy VOIVOD Music
Studio Album, released in 1989
Songs / Tracks Listing
1. Intro / The Unknown Knows (5:55)2. Nothingface (4:14)3. Astronomy Domine (Pink Floyd cover) (5:30)4. Missing Sequences (5:50)5. X-Ray Mirror (4:28)6. Inner Combustion (3:48)7. Pre-Ignition (5:12)8. Into My Hypercube (5:04)9. Sub-Effect (4:30)Total Time: 44:31Bonus disc from 1989 MCA Special Edition:1. 	Into My Hypercube 	(5:02)2.	Missing Sequences 	(5:46)Total time 10:48
Line-up / Musicians
- Denis Bélanger "Snake" / vocals - Denis d'Amour "Piggy" / guitar- Jean-Yves Thériault "Blacky" / bass- Michel Langevin "Away" / drums
Releases information
Artwork: Michel Langevin with Ioannis & Steve Sinclair (Art direction and design)LP MCA Records (Canada) ‎- MCA-6326 (1989, Canada)CD MCA Records ‎- MCAD-6326 (1989, US)2xCD MCA Records ‎- MCAD-6326 (1989, US) Bonus disc w/ 2 extra tracks from the album sessionsCD Metal Mind Productions ‎- MASS CD 1446 DG (2011, Europe) 24-bit remaster Limited Edition
Thanks to ProgLucky for the addition
and to Quinino for the last updates
Edit this entry
Buy VOIVOD Music
DOUG LARSON IMPORTS — Buy prog rock music and rarities (5% off over $125, 10% off over $300, 135$+ Free shipping)
AMAZON — Search « VOIVOD » CDs & Vinyls
VOIVOD Nothingface ratings distribution
4.24
(379 ratings)
Essential: a masterpiece of progressive rock music (47%)
Excellent addition to any prog rock music collection (30%)
Good, but non-essential (13%)
Collectors/fans only (6%)
Poor. Only for completionists (4%)
VOIVOD Nothingface reviews
Showing all collaborators reviews and last reviews preview | Show all reviews/ratings
Collaborators/Experts Reviews
Review by
FloydWright
PROG REVIEWER
After hearing good things about VOIVOD, and this album in particular, when I happened
to locate this album in the "used" bin, I jumped on it immediately.  Unfortunately,
it turned out to be a complete and total disaster.I have to be frank--I can barely understand what the attraction to this album is
unless it's an attraction to absolute, dissonant noise.  It's not that I have some
aversion to metal...in fact, I've come to like many metal bands recently (including
OPETH, SYMPHONY X, DREAM THEATER, AYREON, Killswitch Engage, QUEENSRYCHE, even a bit
of Metallica), and it's not that I can't tolerate dissonance at all, but a number of
factors all combine to make this album grating at the very best, and utterly
impossible to listen to all the way through.  In other places I review, most of the
people who have reviewed this album or given a rating for it have been extremely
impressed; therefore I feel it an obligation to both deliver my negative viewpoint
and justify why I feel this way.It's not for lack of talent...at least, as far as the instrument-playing goes; in
fact, it's immediately obvious how skilled the musicians are, and that's why my
initial impression as I started to listen to the first track, "The Unknown Knows",
was actually quite favorable.  The title track seemed rather unattractive, given that
the singer seems almost totally unable to sing anything resembling a melody, and in
my opinion he might have done better to just scream or growl (I don't mean that in a
sarcastic way--I do like some bands that do that, and I actually think it would've
served this music better).  The cover of PINK FLOYD's "Astronomy Domine" was actually
quite good, and although I think it was lacking in the improvisation department, this
is what saves Nothingface from a zero-merit rating (the other factor is the
obvious precision with which the musicians play...the only other real thing they've
got going for them).  "Missing Sequences" was also tolerable...but after that I
completely lost my patience.For one thing, there's the problem I've already cited with the vocalist.  It's all
right to sing with an abrasive tone from time to time--DREAM THEATER's JAMES LaBRIE
can get away with this incredibly nasal shrieking from time to time, but the
difference is that LaBRIE understands how to turn it on and off to keep it
interesting, even in the middle of some of that band's hardest songs.  But most of
the time, not only does VOIVOD's vocalist barely alter the tone of his voice, he
barely sings anything resembling a melody, giving the Talking Heads' David Byrne a
run for his money in terms of toneless vocals.  This actually starts to resemble
Schoenberg's "Pierrot Lunaire", a rather disastrous classical atonal piece
(guaranteed to make your ears bleed within ten seconds) more than anything.And then there are the chord sequences, if there are in fact such a thing on this
album.  The trouble with the chords is, it seems like they just decided to have, in
every single chord, two notes that clash horribly with each other, and in no way does
one chord lead to the next.  This is fine to use sometimes, but I think this really
is overkill.  Combined with the nearly atonal, dissonant melodies, this makes it
nearly impossible for me to distinguish one song from another with the exception of
"Astronomy Domine", which stands out dramatically from all of them.  Is it any
coincidence that the one track that's actually identifiable from the others was
written by someone else?Normally I try to give every album three opportunities to redeem itself before I
return it to the store...but I know I simply could not endure even a second listen in
this case.  There's no two ways around it--I absolutely cannot sit through this
entire album, and I can barely even make it through two songs in a row (maybe three
if the middle one is "Astronomy Domine").  While there was talent evident, I simply
cannot give much credit for that if I can't listen to their output.  On the basis of
Nothingface, VOIVOD is clearly not a band I will be willing to venture into
again without extensive sampling prior to purchase...even out of the "used" bin!
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Sunday, January 16, 2005 | Review this album | Report (Review #33878)
Review by
slipperman
PROG REVIEWER
An absolutely perfect 5-star album, 'Nothingface' is the apex of Voivod's cosmic
adventures in odd time signatures and bizarre rhythms. While they would go on to
record very good albums, and one particularly great one ('Angel Rat'), 'Nothingface'
remains the quintessential Voivod album. You don't have to look any further than
opener "The Unknown Knows" to uncover the band's rare chemistry at this point
(1989). A variety of tones and textures are spit out from Piggy's guitar, while the
syncopation between bassist Blacky and drummer Away sets the foundation for some
of the band's most challenging ideas. The tone of the bass is incredible, taking the
fuzzy and distorted "blower" sound of their early work and compressing it into a steely
bright sharpness. Away's drum work can never be given enough credit. His nimble
rhythmic finesse makes the most of Glen Robinson's crystal-clear recording job. He's a
pleasure to listen to, and this album stands as his finest performance, handling every
tricky arrangement curveball with ease. It can't be easy to make this angular music
flow, but he manages to link every part seamlessly thanks to his intelligent fills and
quick thinking. Snake's voice is produced perfectly, distant and robotic but somehow
empathetic and human at the same time. His punk influences are long-gone for this
voyage, replaced by an approach that is well-considered, subtle, perfect for the
material, and all his own.
It's almost futile to pinpoint every high mark on this album. A track-by-track synopsis is
unnecessary. Every song carries its own identity, but this album is always, ALWAYS
best listened to in one undistracted sitting. However, I have to point out the
sublime "Missing Sequences", which still remains for me one of the finest examples of
this band at its best. And amidst the dizzying second side, which always struck me as
more complex and more challenging than the first half, lies the gorgeous "Into My
Hybercube", which offers a few moments of linear calm within the twisting controlled-
chaos all around it. And 'Nothingface' also sports one of few examples of a cover song
done right. Their take on Pink Floyd's "Astronomy Domine" not only fits perfectly into
the vibe of this album, but they quite literally have made the song their own. It doesn't
spike out of the running sequence like a sore thumb (as many other covers do), and it
even figures into their live set to this day.
'Nothingface''s incredible performances and songwriting are wrapped in a recording job
that I've always considered masterful. The band and producer Glen Robinson manage
to take this cold and clinical metal and give it a kind of earthiness, an interesting
paradox which manages to give this fascinating album even more intrigue.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Friday, February 18, 2005 | Review this album | Report (Review #33883)
Review by
Certif1ed
SPECIAL COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
NothingProgMetal has come a long way from Black Sabbath and Judas Priest, and VoiVod have come
a long way in terms of time, and produced this album after 5 years of consistently
producing metal that has been pushing the boundaries of what constitutes metal - but
really what this album boils down to is a metal album that is radically different to other
metal albums of the time - not fully-fledged prog rock.It's a very daring album, in that VoiVod are extremely ambitious in terms of style
integration, and really pull out the stops to find different sounds - including a very
interesting cover of "Astronomy Domine", but only manage to pull themselves into the
outer reaches of what I consider to be "technical metal".Despite the inventive approach to rhythm and timbre, this album does not really stray
away from the very basics of metal - find a riff you like, repeat it, add another riff (and
in the case of technical metal, pile on more and more riffs and go off at tangents) within
a standard rock framework. What VoiVod do not do on Nothingface is grow the music, which is one of the
foundations of prog rock, and why this album does not tickle my prog sensors. The
cover of "Astronomy Domine" is a prime example - Pink Floyd grew this track
organically, but VoiVoid dot as many i's as they can, and cross most of the t's in order
to come up with a metallized replica - although some important details are missing, such
as the "woo-oo-oo-oo"s and the improvised feel. This cover really summarizes VoiVod's
approach on this album - a willingness to go out and push boundaries, but a lack
of "rock'n'roll" to give them the  freedom of expression they are obviously looking for.This album therefore lacks the spontaneity of prog, hence I would not recommend it to
anyone growing their prog rock collection - although it is an interesting album to
purchase if you're curious about prog metal, as it does cover many bases, and it's easy
to see why the metal community would see it as progressive, so if prog metal is
your "thing", this is well worth investigating.The textures are not the sterile "bling" that modern production creates out of more
recent "prog metal" offerings, and VoiVod have practically turned their backs on their
thrash metal roots in this opus, so it is a "safe" album for anyone horrified by death
metal growls, giddying, blurry whirlpools of snarling polyrhythmic riffola and double bass
drum Uzi attacks.The main downside for me is Belanger's flat vocal delivery, almost devoid of melody,
tonal quality or feel for musical drama.The main upside is that this is a very inventive collection of riffs, albeit with a tendency
for tangents rather than development, which makes for very intriguing aural wallpaper
that occasionally beckons and tempts, but never fully engrosses.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Thursday, July 28, 2005 | Review this album | Report (Review #40676)
Review by
Melomaniac
PROG REVIEWER
A groundbreaking, genre defining masterpiece.  I would describe the sound as cybernetic
prog metal with a bit of a punk attitude.  Guitarist Denis 'Piggy' D'Amour (R.I.P.) is in the
same field as guitarists such as Robert Fripp and Alex Lifeson, having a style all his own,
where originality AND technicality are combined.  He often uses jazz chords in this sci-fi
context and it makes for a very eerie effect.  His songwriting is even better than his
playing, sounding like nobody else before or after this album.  Bassist Jean-Yves 'Blacky'
Thériault was his perfect low pitch counterpart with intricate bass lines and a slightly
distorted sound, building the ideal bridge between Piggy and drummer Michel 'Away'
Langevin, who is primarily a good, tight metal drummer with enough creativity to be
interesting (also note that Langevin is responsible for all of the band's artwork ever since
their first album).  Singer Denis 'Snake' Bélanger is an acquired taste, and I find he is the
ONLY suitable voice for Voivod, with his quirky melodies and his trademark sneering.  Every
song is excellent, there are no weak points on this album, and credit must be given to the
band for an excellent rendition of Pink Floyd's "Astronomy Dominé", which is probably
better than the original.  They made that song their own.Warning : this album is definitely not for the fainthearted.  The amount of dissonant and
strange chords along with out-there vocal melodies will not please every one, even less so
on the first few spins.  Digest slowly.  But, in the end you will find much in this album to feel
rewarded especially the originality of it.  I know I have.  Even today (and undoubtedly in
many years to come) this album is pertinent and will probably never age, having a style
that some have tried to emulate but to no avail.  Voivod are alone at what they do, and
this album is the perfect example.  A masterpiece in my humble opinion.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Wednesday, July 19, 2006 | Review this album | Report (Review #84193)
Review by
1800iareyay
PROG REVIEWER
After expanding their musical horizons with Killing Technology and Dimension Hatross,
Voivod delivers the coup de grace with Nothingface. This album is a prog metal staple that
is all too often ignored. Blacky and Away are the tightest they'll ever be here, weighing
down the music with odd rhythms. Snake's singing has fully evolved from primal screaming
to clean vocals. Then, there's Piggy. Piggy already set himself apart from the rest of the
thrash guitarists by attempting to play frets other than the very lowest and very highest.
On this album, he all but completely abandons power chords, a sure sign that Voivod isn't
the run-of-the-mill thrash band it started out as. His incorporation of jazz to the thrash
mold results in a distinctive and fiery playing style.The songs all contain strong (albeit bizarre) songwriting, and the music seems to be tailor
made not to fit any preconceived notion of what a song should sound like. "The Unknow
Knows," the sublime "Into the Hypercube," the even better "Missing Sequences,"  and "Sub-
Effect" make up a good portion Voivod's best tunes. The cover of Pink Floyd's "Astronomy
Dominé" is, incredibly, more bizarre than the original.This album would influence very little musicians, but for the precious few that are lucky
enough to stumble onto this band, Nothingface remains a pinnacle of experimental metal
and a landmark in prog metal. Snake's vocals are the only fly in the ointment, but as with
so many lesser vocalists, he's perfect for the band. Hard copies of the album are hard to
come by, but the band was recently added on iTunes and this album is reason enough to
stop what you're doing, make an account if you have to, and purchase this vital slab of
early progressive metal.Grade: A
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Tuesday, February 20, 2007 | Review this album | Report (Review #112931)
Review by
FruMp
PROG REVIEWER
Nothingface is a great album which sees VOIVOD's signature sound tightened and
refined with outstanding results as their progression from thrash to technologically
influenced progressive metal complete. I actually came upon this album because I had
been told they are a good thrash band so I was quite suprised to find this totally
unexpected yet welcome piece of music.The musicianship on this album is great, the musicians all interlock brilliantly, the
drums are interesting and reasonably technical in parts, Denis 'piggy' D'Amour is the
crown jewel of the band producing some amazingly original and interesting riffs.
Given there is only one guitar the bass does a fantastic job of cementing things
together and holding the fort while piggy is off on a solo. I think the only let down
with regards to the musicians are the vocals, they are rather lacklustre and toneless
although it doesn't bother me a great deal now that I'm used to it.The album starts off strongly after a brief introduction with one of the best songs
on the album 'the unknown knows' and we get our first taste of the angular, paranoid
and most suprisingly emotionally evocative music on nothingface. There are some
really great bits in this song, I espeically like the part when it gets quite fast
after the solo.Nothingface continues on strongly with what else but the title track - Nothingface,
the music is once again very abrupt and jagged and the song has a great chorus
(though the technological lyrics are fairly cheesy which is something that carries on
through the whole album love them or hate them).Probably my favourite song on the album is the pink floyd cover astronomy domine,
VOIVOD have really done a fantastic job in capturing the spaciness this song demands
although in a different way to the original but it is an altogether fantastic cover
of a classic song by a classic band - a formidable feat to accomplish.The album then tapers off a bit in my opinion and whilst the remaining songs aren't
by any means bad in fact they are all pretty good but just not as good as the first
few songs on the album.All in all a great album from VOIVOD and a pivotal point in their career and the
progression of their sound, I'd say this album is worth about 4.5 stars but I'm going
to round it down to 4 due to some of the issues I mentioned before such as the
vocals, the cheesy lyrics and the album tapering off towards the end.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Friday, April 27, 2007 | Review this album | Report (Review #119973)
Review by
UMUR
SPECIAL COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
"Nothingface" is the fifth full-length studio album by Canadian progressive metal act Voivod. The album was released through Mechanic/MCA Records in October 1989 (released through Noise Records in Europe). It´s the successor to "Dimension Hatröss" from June 1988. "Nothingface" is Voivod´s most commercially successful release and the promotional video which was shot for the cover of "Astronomy Domine" by Pink Floyd was aired on MTV´s Headbangers Ball and helped strengthen Voivod´s reputation and profile on the scene. It´s not like Voivod sold millions of albums and commercially successful should in this case be understood in the right context. But considering the type of music they play on "Nothingface", any kind of commercial success is a major achievement.Stylistically the material on "Nothingface" is a strange, sci-fi themed, and darkly psychedelic tinged type of progressive metal, featuring odd abrupt rhythm work/time-signature changes, and dissonant riffs. Lead vocalist Denis Bélanger "Snake" sings more melodic on "Nothingface" than he has done on any of the previous releases, but his melody lines and the rhythm of this delivery are often weird and not particularly catchy. He sounds a lot like a punk singer who went through the wrong rehearsal room door but decided to stay and play with the technical metal/progressive metal band who happened to be playing there. So in many ways "Nothingface" is a fragmented and odd release, but that´s exactly why it´s so brilliant......it´s so unusual, creative, and unique that there really isn´t anything like it out there. Never before...and never since. Coming from the technical thrash metal/progressive metal of "Dimension Hatröss" the change of musical direction must have confused many of the band´s thrash metal fans, who were probably already a bit tired of the experimental songwriting on "Dimension Hatröss". "Nothingface" takes that approach and runs with it. Most thrash metal oriented riffs are gone from the music, and instead the use of twisted, dissonant, and unconventional riffs have increased. There´s also an almost uplifting funky groove to some tracks, which is something new too. Despite being a bit more melodic inclined release, "Nothingface" is by no means an easily accessible listen. It´s an aquired taste too and I´m sure that most people are left a bit baffled after their first listen. People´s reactions to listening to "Nothingface" can most likely be put in two catagories...those who found it an odd, inpenetrable, and uninviting listen and those who found it weird but were left with an urge to give it more spins because they heard something intriguing they felt was worth exploring more."Nothingface" features a powerful, organic, and detailed sound production which perfectly suits the material. The bass is quite prominent in the soundscape and provides the right amount of heaviness to the music, when the guitar often wanders off in more high end riff or lead part territories. The drums feature a powerful organic tone, and the vocals are placed just right in the mix. Upon conclusion it´s almost impossible to describe what "Nothingface" sounds like on paper in a way that leaves the reader wiser or more informed after reading the review. It´s one of those releases which you have to give a listen yourself to be able to judge and evaluate. But to my ears (so here´s a pretty subjective opinion) "Nothingface" is the true definition of an artist being progressive. Voivod created something which didn´t exist before (not even in their own previous work) and they progressed a whole music genre in the process. So even if you aren´t able to appreciate the music and aren´t able to enjoy listening to it, there should still be points for creativity and uniqueness. A 5 star (100%) rating is deserved.(Originally posted on Metal Music Archives).
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Thursday, October 25, 2007 | Review this album | Report (Review #146858)
Review by
horsewithteeth11
PROG REVIEWER
Man, I honestly don't know how I missed these guys for so long. Don't think that I've only just
heard of Voivod recently. Back when I was younger and bands like Metallica and Iron Maiden were a
healthy staple of my musical diet, I at least knew who Voivod was. Except at the time they were
"weird" or "too different" from any metal band I'd heard, so it was difficult to pigeonhole them.
Not to mention that the sci-fi concepts went a little bit over my head, and still do quite honestly.Voivod mixes a blend of hardcore punk, thrash metal, and progressive metal to create a really unique
sound. They are fairly technical without being overly technical, and draw on many themes from
Cold-War era politics to science fiction. Rush and Pink Floyd are drawn upon almost as much as early
hardcore punk is on this album. To many metal fans who were lucky enough to be growing up in the
late 80s and early 90s, Voivod were something of a band with a massive cult following. And many of
them who were into the band talk about some of the members on this album as being legends. I wish I
had been around then so I could understand what those feelings were like, but I digress. What stand
out most on this album for me is how Blacky manages to fill a ridiculous amount of space in the
music without shoving the other band members out of the way, and Snake's vocals are quite distinct,
which is partially due to the French-Canadian accent in my opinion. When I first heard this album
many years ago, I dismissed it after a few listens as being way too out there. Now that I have a
more expanded music ear, I'm surprised I couldn't see how original this album was. Quite honestly, I
still think it's pretty original. I especially love the Pink Floyd cover of Astronomy Domine. Like
UMUR, I heard this version before I heard the Pink Floyd version. And I do think I prefer this one a
little more.While Nothingface definitely isn't a masterpiece in my opinion, it is certainly light years ahead of
its time. Even today it still sounds pretty original. I'll give it 4 stars, and I'm so glad I gave
it another chance. I may have to upgrade it to 5 stars eventually though because it's so close to
masterpiece status.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Monday, November 16, 2009 | Review this album | Report (Review #251020)
Review by
Bonnek
SPECIAL COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
Continuing their progressive tendencies, Voivod delivers their most personal, elaborated and most
widely acknowledged achievement ever with Nothingface. However, the emphasis on
technicalities and production make it a very distant album, lacking the direct emotional appeal as
well as the rocking song writing and spontaneity of the two preceding albums.The album starts most impressing with the dramatic space prog intro of The Unknown Knows,
what follows is pure guitar bliss. The production is perfect this time and balances all instruments
perfectly. As a song though, this never clicked with me, it's sought-after and stops rather abruptly
just when it's really getting interesting. The entire album boast impressive musicianship and
amounts of originality that are simply unfair when compared to most other bands, but the songs sound
studied, sterile and lack vigour and naturalness. Especially 'Snake' disappoints me. He let go of
the punk flavours of his voice but does not have enough melodic qualities to compensate for it. The
previous album had a better balance there.Given my quibbles with the compositions, it's no surprise that this album is at its most convincing
when they leave the songwriting to someone else. It's a bit cynical maybe but the quality difference
of the Pink Floyd classic Astronomy Domine with any other song on the album is phenomenal.
Here they can hang their unique sound and daft playing on a really accomplished piece of music and
the result is phenomenal. It's not better then PF's Umma Gumma version but it's a very fine
metalized version.Nothingface is Voivod's acclaimed masterpiece and an essential album. However, you might not
be the only one out there to be disappointed with its detached manner, sterility or far-fetched song
writing. If such would be the case, don't discard the band too soon, you still might find much to
enjoy in the two powerful albums that preceded or in the two more easily flowing albums that
followed. 3.5 stars
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Sunday, February 7, 2010 | Review this album | Report (Review #264735)
Review by
JJLehto
PROG REVIEWER
Now this is on of the more unique albums I've heard. I was intrigued by the claim that Voivod
incorporated progressive elements into thrash metal. That is certainly the way to describe
"Nothingface". It truly bridges the gap between prog and thrash. I was expecting thrash that perhaps
stop and go, with clean elements, different time signatures, etc. However, that was not really the
case. This is a true merger of thrash metal and prog. This album has lots of double bass as is fairly fast paced, (with pretty thrashy sections
throughout). However, it certainly pushes the boundaries of thrash metal. The bass is heavier than
the guitar, (and the bass work is amazing on this album) the guitar is fairly high pitched and
solo's are quite melodic and groovy. Of course there is the stop/go feel and technicality that we
love in prog metal. One of my favorite things about Voivod, and is heard almost exclusively on this album, is how there
almost no tremolo picking used. Instead Denis D'Amour (Piggy) uses chords. These are often played on
the higher end of the guitar, giving the album a really frantic feeling that I just love. All the instruments on this album are amazing. The guitar work is unique and superb, the bass is
wonderful and the drumming is pretty technical. The composition of the songs are great, and as
mentioned before the frantic feeling guitar work really fits with thrash metal. The only real downside to this album are the vocals. They are good, and I actually enjoy them pretty
well. However, I found them a bit difficult at times. Every song on the album is good, and there are
no real slow parts, (the one upside to being rooted in thrash I suppose is that songs are not long
enough to grow old or have down parts). While it is difficult to do, I can not give this album five stars. While I would say it is certainly
a masterpiece, it just does not give me the feeling of a five star album. There is no weak song but
"Into my Hypercube" and "Sub Effect" are a little on the weak side. Also, the Pink Floyd cover is
well done but in my opinion, it is the weakest song on the album and some parts drag a little. While
this is not Voivod's doing per se, it is a weak part in the chain. A great album that I would highly
recommend for anyone.
Four Stars
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Tuesday, May 18, 2010 | Review this album | Report (Review #282453)
Review by
zravkapt
SPECIAL COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
OK, gather around kids, I'm going to tell you what prog-metal *should* sound like. Shredding,
blastbeats and New Age keyboards is NOT how prog-metal should sound. This album came
out in 1989 and is even 'proggier' than their last album. However, I'm not too much into what
they did after this, mainly because later albums seemed either more streamlined or wanted to
sound more like 'normal' metal. Actually, I'm not much into their early hardcore punk/thrash
stuff either. But here they reached their artistic peak. Nothingface has great production for it's
genre and era, mainly because you can actually hear the bass! Of course these guys had a
Floyd influence(more on that later), but I read an interview with them from the early '90s where
they say they used to listen to Magma(!) A metal band from Quebec influenced by
Magma...Awesome!!!
I still have my original cassette of this somewhere(I think), but I recently heard a remastered
CD of this album and I didn't like it so much. It's too compressed and the drums are too loud
and irritating to the ears. Also, they have the "Intro" to "Unknown Knows" as a seperate track.
Why? What was the point of that? I guess in case some kid with ADHDDVDVD got bored with
the 30 seconds of spacy noises and just wanted to get to the rockin' part of "Unknown Knows".
Well, before somebody sucked the life out of this album by remastering it, it *was* a great
sounding album. Lots of dynamics: the quiet parts were quiet and the loud parts were loud.
Y'know, the way music is *supposed* to sound!
One of the band members was named 'Piggy', I think it was the bass player, not sure. Anyway,
the three musicians just gel here. Lots of start/stop stuff going on where the three seem
connected telepathically. Changes in tempo and time, tritones and dissonance pretty much
separated Voivod from other metal bands in the late '80s. The most well-known song here is
of course their cover of Floyd's "Astronomy Domine" which is well done(they later did a version
of another Floyd track "The Nile Song" which is...uh...not so well done). Clearly they based their
version on the one found on Ummagumma. Oh yeah, they have a singer too. Great album. 4
stars(try and track down an older copy if you can).
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Wednesday, October 13, 2010 | Review this album | Report (Review #303824)
Review by
friso
PROG REVIEWER
Voivod - Nothingface (1989)Progressive metal ain't my expertise, but once and a while I'm prepared to make an
exception for some bands. My brother first introduced me to Voivod and I liked their inventive
and progressive metal style. The vocals of Denis Belanger are a bit punky and it reminds me of two styles: Iron Maiden's
Paul di'Anno (which I think is great) and the psychedelic sound of German Krautrocker's
Can who introduced the psychedelic alternative of punky vocals. The guitar sound and style
of Denis d'Amour quickly became one of my favorites in the metal-scene. His inventive use
of non-conventional chords for trash/progressive metal is really good. The drums are very
good as well and the bass-lines are perfect. On the album there are many passages with
two guitars. Though Voivod has frenzied expression and the suprise attack as main weapons for their
brutal sound, there's still enough room for good song-writing and composition that makes
sense. A lot of bands loose themselves when using to many different ideas in one song,
but Voivod seems to know where it's going. I also like the spacey passages and the
futuristic lyrics of the music. I really think Voivod offers a good alternative for the otherwise
often meaningless or cheesy lyrics of metal. Furthermore it's good to point out there's one
cover on this album; Astronomy Domine which of course was written by Pink Floyd. Voivod's
version is really good, really heavy and has that same energetic feel as the original. Good
work. Now, I haven't heard other albums of Voivod, so I can't make a comparison between them.
I've been told this album is more 'conventional/commercial/accesible' or whatever but I can't
say this an apparent problem whilst listening to the album. Conclusion. A good place to do my cautious step into progressive metal (as long as it's
available on vinyl that is). I like the melodic, dissonant and heavy sound of Voivod and their
composition is really good. The sound of the band is very original, so I can't give less then
four stars for this one.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Friday, December 31, 2010 | Review this album | Report (Review #368771)
Review by
Conor Fynes
PROG REVIEWER
'Nothingface' - Voivod (10/10) Although I would consider myself to be a fairly well-versed metalhead through and through, thrash
metal is not a genre I have ever had much luck with. Being introduced to thrash by such albums as
Slayer's 'Reign In Blood', I was never impressed and found the obsessive tendencies towards soloing
and speed to be somewhat tasteless. Now, enter Voivod; a progressive thrash metal band from Montreal
that would not only change my view on thrash metal, but also my perspective of how one could play
the guitar. Since being introduced to this majestic album, I since consider it to be one of my
favourite metal albums of all time, and for very good reason. 1989's 'Nothingface' is a unique album
like no other in thrash, and with its combination of powerful originality and strong songwriting,
Voivod have created what I now easily consider to be the greatest thrash album of all time, bar none.Starting out as a more typical metal band, 'Nothingface' would see Voivod inherit even more
progressive trends into their music. Changes in time signature, hallucinogen-addled lyrical themes
and experimental musicianship would equate to a sound quite far flung from virtually all of the
other metal released in its day. Like all of the best bands, Voivod's sound is equally divided
amongst its four members. Perhaps most important is the atypical and disharmonic style of riffing
from Denis 'Piggy' L'Amour, now unfortunately laid to rest. A very clear alternative to the 'skill
through speed and soloing' approach adopted by most thrash musicians, Piggy makes his talent shown
through using very irregular, at times unsettling chord structures and frantic switches between
riffs. As a guitarist myself, Piggy's intricate work with chord experiments and unique tone stands
as being one of my greatest influences; a guitarist who showed me that there was much more to metal
guitar than going down the route of shredding. For that, I am indebted to him.Also here are the keen bass lines of Jean-Yves Theriault. Usually the bass is not a particularly
important instrument (instead gravitating towards a back-up), but Voivod makes it nearly as
important  as Piggy's guitar in the mix. The result is a mixed sound that  has a much deeper
resonance to it than most other bands. There are some surprisingly technical bass riffs here, which
add to the already schizoid nature of Piggy's riffs. Denis Belanger's vocals on the other hand are
not nearly as skillfully accomplished as the craft of the bassist or guitarist, are full of charisma
and expression. An incredibly unique voice with a bit of a Francophone tinge to it that can only be
found in Quebec, he leads the band very well, although some of the lyrics can get weak and amount to
little more than technobabble over abstract science fiction concepts. The least remarkable aspect of
the performance on 'Nothingface' is the drumwork of Michael Langevin, but it remains quite strong,
leading the time signature changes with precision.'Nothingface' is easily one of the strongest metal albums ever made. Some strong songwriting is made
even more incredible by the band's innovative performance. If you're like me, you might be starved
for some really original sound in the genre of metal. Voivod has accomplished this with
'Nothingface', and in doing so, they have made what is one of my favourite metal albums ever.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Tuesday, April 5, 2011 | Review this album | Report (Review #428111)
Review by
AtomicCrimsonRush
SPECIAL COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
Detached technical metal with some shining moments.Another very technical prog album from Voi Vod, "Nothingface" follows along the same lines as
the previous release "Dimension Hatross", science fiction concepts, odd time sigs that change
constantly and very heavy riffs. Snake's vocals are easy to listen to, no growling at all, and lots
of innovative styles. The sterile lyrics and sheer detachment the band conveys on this will
alienate some and, in my opinion, hinders it from being up to the standard of the previous
release. It begins with The Unknown Knows, a low droning sound is heard that builds into spacey
industial noise, then Piggy's distorted mega riffs and howling lead screams out. The riff that
follows is a fast tempo fractured ametrical pattern. It sounds the same as "Dimension Hatross"
album but delightfully so as that was a terrific release. It doesn't take long until the odd time
shifts begin; at 3:44 a broken signature pummels the order into glorious chaos. The bass
pounds deep and resonates with excellent pulsating drums.Astronomy Domine is one of the best Pink Floyd covers, Voi Vod also did other Pink Floyd
songs but nothing comes close to this. The harmony in the verse is similar to early Floyd. I love
the way Piggy plays the metal riffs to this classic instead of the "oooooohs". The lead break is
astounding, as good as I have heard on this song. It also has that "Ummagumma" quiet section,
and is very spacey and must be the heaviest version ever. Quite simply this track is a
masterpiece.     Missing Sequences has a strong rhythm and features a booming bass solo and some
innovative guitar work. Snake sings some excellent melodies on this track, and definitely it is a
great performance from Piggy who keeps perfect timing with the percussion in very complex
technical patterns.X ray Mirror lyrics make sense "Tunnel seems so long, Touching the bottom, A slim reflexion,
Punctured my vision, I didn't notice, Beside the last door, Standing on nothing, There was a
mirror." The time sigs are in constant flux, competing with odd drumming and bassline shapes.
Inner Combustion is a great song with powerful lyrics; "All am I, I am all, Fluorescent light,
Pellucid mineral, Essential dogma, Excludes the logical, Immobile centre, One, two, three for
nothing, Projection ponder, Under a raven's wing, Catalyst fusion, Inner combustion." Piggy's
metal riffing is second to none and he is simply at his best here, especially the grinding lead
break. Snake's vocals remind me of Hawkwind at times. Pre-ignition is a faster song with some inventive signatures and weird lyrics; "Grinding round,
The hydraulic wheel, Extraction, The ultimate greed, Now hidden from view, Surveying stable
shifts, A feeble groove, Unintentional split." It's not a love song. The industrial sounds add to
the overall concept of decayed social damage by pipes and factories that pollute the skies in
an apocalyptic future dystopia. Sub-Effect has some awesome riffing that slices and dices any sense of consistent timing;
perhaps it is consistent in that it has chaotic punctuations consistently. It has a terrific middle
section with chiming guitar, especially the section where Snake sings "Please no Too late for
S.O.S. Mute island, fish-eye view, Circling the border line, No resource, no rescue, I'm
stranded, I'm otherwise."   There are lots of moments to savour for metal heads and prog fans alike but this album did not
impact me as much as "Dimension Hatross" previously. Perhaps it was too similar, or too
mechanised; either way it did not surprise me and did not feature as many highlights.
Nevertheless, "Nothingface" is a solid Voi Vod album and worthwhile seeking out, if only, for
nothing else, the Astronomy Domine masterpiece.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Friday, December 16, 2011 | Review this album | Report (Review #589563)
Review by
Warthur
PROG REVIEWER
Voivod followed up Dimension Hatross with an even more technically advanced album which
is almost on a par with its classic predecessor. The cover of Pink Floyd's Astronomy Domine is
an inspired choice, since it both brings out the heavier aspects of the song in such a way as to
aid a new appreciation of the original whilst fitting in with the perfectly with the esoteric sci-fi
concepts the album plays with. Presented in a mildly less aggressive style than Dimension
Hatross, I'd also say this album is the more accessible of the two, though I think any Voivod
collection would be deficient without both.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Friday, December 23, 2011 | Review this album | Report (Review #595064)
Review by
Prog Sothoth
COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
Voivod had clearly set themselves apart from just about any other thrash band by
Dimension Hatross in terms of sound, but they would take the whole thing further into a
truly weird realm with Nothingface, which to this day remains one of the more unique
albums I've ever heard.There's still some elements of thrash present, particularly with the drumming which
bounces about between spacey grooves and fast tempos augmented with double bass
pedaling. But man, there's a truly strange aural experience going on here, mostly due to
Denis d'Amour's wildly adventurous chord progressions that tap into some sort of futuristic
fusion metal sound. When I bring up fusion in this case, I don't mean in the sense of those
extreme metal bands that pummel away until suddenly shifting into some loungy jazz piece
before getting all heavy again. The jazziness in Nothingface is inherent throughout the
album due to the nature of the music as a whole, with the bass guitar absolutely necessary
and up front to anchor the music while the guitar explores tritone textures and dissonant
passages that still retain an appealing smoothness.Another important aspect of this album is Denis Belanger. On this album, his vocals stand
out as an original and rare blending of alternative, punk and space rock stylistics...eschewing the
snarly yelling of his full throttle thrash days. As a result, the album, though clearly metal in
instrumentation, doesn't necessarily feel like a metal album, but almost like some heavy
space rock album with elements of metal music woven into the songs. It's quite strange
and to this day not often mimicked.The most important thing to note, however, is that these songs are generally quite
entertaining. Tracks like "The Unknown Knows" and "Inner Combustion" are punchy with
some cool cyberpunk attitude, and a track like "Into My Hypercube" adds softer passages
with agreeable melodies and interesting lyrics. My personal favorite would be the final cut,
being "Sub Effect", with its fantastic opening couple of minutes provided by the jerky
rhythms and the singer's unique tone...like a tough & mean version of that Violent Femmes
guy. There's also that tripped out break with jangly distant guitars two thirds of the way
through that number that's just a great insert into the song while not being jarring.The cover of Astronomy Domine deserves mention as well; being one of the better Pink
Floyd covers I've heard with some spot-on guitar playing. A few of the other tracks such
as "Pre-Ignition", while fine enough in their own right, don't resonate as well as others, and
as the album wears on, it can feel a bit "same-y" on a few occasions despite being a
complete anomaly in the metal world. Still, it was quite a release back in the day, and still
has few peers even now. An excellent work overall.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Friday, November 30, 2012 | Review this album | Report (Review #868991)
Review by
Tapfret
SPECIAL COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator / Retired Admin
After going full frontal prog with the outstanding concept album Dimension Hatross, Voivod took another
opportunity to tweak their game. Keeping up with the sci-fi theme that had served them so well to this point, they would
break almost completely from their thrash metal roots. Well, at least the thrash part. The new formula would lead to the
widely acclaimed Nothingface, their most popular release and resident of US college radio top 40 charts  in late
1989-early 1990.
From the word go it is obvious Voivod had a far better budget for recording. The thrash sound of the 2 previous albums
was accompanied by heavy reverb. Nothingface pulled the sound closer to the listener. The thrashy beat speed is
evident on the opener, The Unknown Knows, but gives way on the rest album to a very eclectic rhythm library
that play more junctional beats to the overlying guitar riffs. Dennis D'amour's guitar playing, while remaining
unorthodox and routinely atonal, tends to be more melodic, arpeggiated and exploring broader chord extensions than
at any other point in Voivod's discography. Jean-Yves "Blacky" Thériault maintains his "blower bass" style, but sounds
more defined within the recording. Vocally, Denis "Snake" Bélanger continues to bring what I call his "apocalyptic town
crier" vocals to the party, this time appearing a bit less monotone than before.
The overall impression remains high energy, but presents a much more sophisticated instrumental interplay than other
Voivod material. The highlight for many, otherwise a sidelight to me, is the inclusion of Pink Floyd cover, Astronomy
Domine. This was likely the piece that propelled the album to the heretofore unseen mainstream popularity. As I
was not a particular fan of the original, I can take it or leave it. That being said, it was cetainly a more than proficient
rendition.
Nothingface and its predecessor, Dimension Hatross, will always stand out as game changers in the prog
metal scene. And game changers for the band themselves. While so many rising stars from the thrash metal scene were
flaming out, Voivod was carving a niche for themselves as true progressive metal originals. Nothingface is the
second consecutive (and last) masterpiece for a unique band among their contemporaries. 5 stars, absolutely essential.
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Wednesday, February 22, 2017 | Review this album | Report (Review #1695797)
Review by
BrufordFreak
COLLABORATOR Honorary Collaborator
Powerful metal music with an incongruously "nice" vocalist--he sounds too New Wave/post-punk--like he hasn't
moved out of the 1980s and barely out of the late 70s. And the music itself occupies more of the high end of the
octaval spectrum, making it not nearly as dark or heavy metal as I expected--more like new-wave punk or post-
punk.1. "Intro / The Unknown Knows" (5:55) Great opening. Vocal more like The Clash or The Ambitious Lovers.(8.5/10)2. "Nothingface" (4:14) more of an avant vocal with a mezzo metal sound palate. (8.75/10)3. "Astronomy Domine" (Pink Floyd cover) (5:30) suitably metallized. I don't really know (or like) the original) so this
is a nice improvement. The best sounding song on the album so far. (9/10)4. "Missing Sequences" (5:50) opens with a sinister musical and vocal display, until a shift at 0:45 takes it into more
technically proficient punk territory. Weird chordal and tempo shifts beneath the singer's constant delivery. Too
many shifts. It's as if many riffs and cut from other songs or ideas got all spliced together for this one. Weird, but
kind of cool and clever. (8.75/10)5. "X-Ray Mirror" (4:28) opens a little Crimsonian before turning more tech-metal. Vocally, I'm reminded of Bowie,
Zappa, Peter Hammill, and Arto Lindsay. Nice guitar work throughout. (9/10)6. "Inner Combustion" (3:48) IMHO, the Peter Hammill-like vocal doesn't really fit with the music. Arto Lindsay
stylings in the second half. It's as if the band of musicians and the vocalist are operating in two different universes.
(8/10)7. "Pre-Ignition" (5:12) the most complexly constructed and cleverly executed song on the album, for once the lyrics
are paled by the work of the musicians. (8.75/10)8. "Into My Hypercube" (5:04) opens with a soft, gentle sonic palette--even the whispery vocal--until 0:35 when full
power distortion is engaged and the vocalist restores his grit. Kind of a cool BLUE 'YSTER CULT Secret Treaties vibe
to this one. (8.75/10)9. "Sub-Effect" (4:30) not sure why, but I think this is my favorite song on the album. I think it's the melody and
fitting shifts. (9/10)Total Time: 44:31I imagine people who like intelligent lyrics set to thin-walled guitar-bass-and-drums metal would love this.B/four stars; an excellent heavier contribution to Prog World--especially as it's coming from the 1980s!
social review comments  | Review Permalink
Posted Saturday, June 27, 2020 | Review this album | Report (Review #2415948)
Latest members reviews
Voivod:  A Máster Class In Progression
I started listening to Voivod in 1988 after a friend suggested them. The first album I heard was Killing Technology. I
was impressed by their futuristic, apocalyptic, and claustrophobic style, but I couldn't connect with the music, which
was a mix of pu
... (read more)
Report this review (#3106022) | Posted by Stoneburner | Sunday, October 6, 2024 | Review Permanlink
Review #112!
'Nothingface' is an interesting metal album.  It is prone to
subtleties and just noticeable nuances.  This comes through
with the first track, 'Intro/The Unknown Knows'.  A minute in
the song explodes.  Denis Bel'nger has some distinct vocals
that I really enjoy.  This song h
... (read more)
Report this review (#2929005) | Posted by Boi_da_boi_124 | Monday, May 29, 2023 | Review Permanlink
Voivod's second grand breakthrough. After the very progressive and sound-defining "Dimension Hatröss" released just one year before, Voivod's fifth album, "Nothingface" finds Voivod at one of its many creative peaks.
Nothingface was meant to be their commercial breakthrough, featuring more access
... (read more)
Report this review (#2531189) | Posted by Isaac Peretz | Friday, April 2, 2021 | Review Permanlink
Farewell, thrash my love... for I now am progressive: 9/10
Beginning with the simplicity of speed metal, the Canadian band VOIVOD developed a lot through its musical
journey, being able to output something as complex as NOTHINGFACE. It is certainly less abrasive than its
predecessor, DIMENSIO
... (read more)
Report this review (#1821961) | Posted by Luqueasaur | Saturday, November 11, 2017 | Review Permanlink
This album is Voivod's progressive metal masterpiece and maybe their most diversified and technical album. Every fan of this band that I know considers this album as a brilliant masterpiece and one of the top three album of the Quebeckers and so do I. It is a shame that this album is not available o
... (read more)
Report this review (#383276) | Posted by kluseba | Wednesday, January 19, 2011 | Review Permanlink
Voivod developed their music beyond "progressive thrash metal" with their fifth album Nothingface. The influence of progressive rock in to their music can be seen easly. Although this album is a masterpiece for me, I can't recomend this album to anyone. Its not easy listening and vocals are [&*!#]ty
... (read more)
Report this review (#371257) | Posted by bill hicks | Sunday, January 2, 2011 | Review Permanlink
Honestly, if you'd have asked me what was going on in the progressive metal scene during the 80s,
I'd have probably responded "What progressive metal scene?" without a moment's hesitation. Oh, well
sure, there's Queensrÿche and their magnum opus "Operation: Mindcrime" which came out in the late
8
... (read more)
Report this review (#277631) | Posted by AgentSpork | Monday, April 12, 2010 | Review Permanlink
Nothingface is one of the prime examples of how Tech/Extreme Prog metal stretches its
legs more often than many may think. The principal idea of this album is the unique sound
and timbres you find. Although some may call it a metal album, the instruments can hardly
be called heavy and there is
... (read more)
Report this review (#218303) | Posted by topofsm | Tuesday, May 26, 2009 | Review Permanlink
I like to play guitar. I can say I'm guitar oriented guy and I always pay precise attention to what
guitarists play on albums. Denis D'amour was (RIP) one of the most original guitarists on this planet.
This album is Voivod's technical peak. But not only that was very important. This time produc
... (read more)
Report this review (#212394) | Posted by LSDisease | Saturday, April 25, 2009 | Review Permanlink
A few hours ago I listened after a good many years to DIMENSION HATRÖSS again and was rather
diasappointed. Now I have done the same with NOTHINGFACE - and man, they blew me away! The first
side (of my vinyl version) is comparatively mellow (by Voivod standards) with a good sense for melody
an
... (read more)
Report this review (#162331) | Posted by strayfromatlantis | Thursday, February 21, 2008 | Review Permanlink
To me, a masterpiece is something that has to be either, very technical, unusual,
unexpected, inspired, totally creative, efficient and sophisticated, combine with a
great concept and emotions.. Voivod has all that, especially in the nothing face album.
Dissonance, ultra offbeat, dark and sci-
... (read more)
Report this review (#60591) | Posted by  | Saturday, December 17, 2005 | Review Permanlink
In the era of hair-rock-hit-glue-assembly fabrik (thanks, Poison & co), this is "the" LP of
1989. While Metallica tried (and mainly succeeded) to produce "... And Justice For All" but
that was it, and Celtic Frost's Into the Pandemonium - althoug the most influential LP of
90's - almost vanish
... (read more)
Report this review (#56248) | Posted by  | Monday, November 14, 2005 | Review Permanlink
I've never considered myself a big "prog" fan really.  I grew up on thrash/speed
metal and punk back in the 80s and one of those bands was Voivod.  I was on the
Voivod bandwagon from the time I heard 'Forgotten in Space' on the 'Killing
Tecnology' LP.  I was not yet a huge fan, but I loved Voivod
... (read more)
Report this review (#51278) | Posted by  | Tuesday, October 11, 2005 | Review Permanlink
I think that NothingFace is Voivod's best overall album.The only word that come to my
head when someone talk about this album is:AMAZING.All songs are quite
good.NothingFace contain Pink Floyd's cover ''Astronomy Donime'' which IMO Voivod's
version is better than the original version because of t
... (read more)
Report this review (#42534) | Posted by  | Thursday, August 11, 2005 | Review Permanlink
I got this album back then in 1989. Before this one I already have "Killing
Technology" and "Rrroarrr". I thought VOIVOD were doing thrash metal at best like
thos albums, but I was totally wrong. "Nothingface" is nothing but AMAZING metal at
its best! I dig quite a number of technical metal a
... (read more)
Report this review (#33881) | Posted by  | Friday, January 28, 2005 | Review Permanlink
Since it's inception, this record proved the world the technical capabillities and the out-of-
this-world essence, sadly as many bands in the late 80's, the record faded away very fast,
however, the quality and tightness of the music made it survive and beacme a trademark in
sound and music, ye
... (read more)
Report this review (#33880) | Posted by arqwave | Thursday, January 27, 2005 | Review Permanlink
it's very hard to find better guitar album than this one, maybe on Grace Under Pressure is
better guitar work but here we have also such great complex chords i have chills up and
down my spine. this album is closer to classic prog metal than to techno thrash. Astronomy
Domine is better than in
... (read more)
Report this review (#33879) | Posted by l-s-d | Wednesday, January 19, 2005 | Review Permanlink
Post a review of VOIVOD "Nothingface"
You must be a forum member to post a review, please register here if you are not.
MEMBERS LOGIN ZONE
As a registered member (register here if not), you can post rating/reviews (& edit later), comments reviews and submit new albums.
You are not logged, please complete authentication before continuing (use forum credentials).
Forum user
Forum password
Copyright Prog Archives, All rights reserved. | Legal Notice | Privacy Policy | Advertise | RSS + syndications
Other sites in the MAC network: JazzMusicArchives.com — jazz music reviews and archives | MetalMusicArchives.com — metal music reviews and archives
Donate monthly and keep PA fast-loading and ad-free forever.