The Charles Dickens Page: His Work, Life, and Times
Learn more about Charles Dickens:
Dickens Fast Facts
Dickens Biography
Dickens' Novels
Dickens' Characters
Illustrating Dickens
Dickens' London
Mapping Dickens
Dickens & Christmas
Family and Friends
Dickens in America
Dickens' Journalism
Dickens on Stage
Dickens on Film
Reading Dickens
Dickens Glossary
Dickens Quotes
Fun and Games
Bibliography
Dickens Collection
About this Site
Boz Spotlight
Charles DickensBleak House
Dickens' classic featuring 40 all-new linoleum cut illustrations by award winning illustrator Gerry Mooney
Boz Spotlight Archive
The Mystery of Ellen Ternan
Forget who killed Edwin Drood, Dickens scholars and amateur enthusiasts have been trying to solve Dickens' last and greatest mystery since his death in 1870. Namely, what exactly was his relationship with Ellen Lawless Ternan?
Dickens at the Movies
Charles Dickens' visual style of writing lends itself easily to the stage and screen. The Internet Movie Database lists over 200 films made from Dickens' novels.
Your browser does not support JavaScript!
In the Charles Dickens tradition of helping the needy and the sick this site supports
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
Finding cures. Saving children.
Please help!
Sir Roger de Coverley
The fiddler struck up Sir Roger de Coverley. Then old Fezziwig stood out to dance with Mrs Fezziwig. Top couple, too; with a good stiff piece of work cut out for them.
The dance performed by Fezziwig and company was popular in the eighteenth century and was considered old-fashioned by Dickens' time. Named for a ficticious character in The Spectator (1711) the dance resembled the Virginia Reel. It was usually the last dance performed during an evening of entertainment (Hearn, 2004, pp. 70-71, n. 52).
Learn the dance
Hear the music
Vote for your favorite Charles Dickens novel, character, and film version of A Christmas Carol
Charles Dickens Puzzles
By Julian Morgan
A fun and challenging romp through the world of Dickens!
Also available: Shakespeare!
Railway Crash!
Charles Dickens, Henry Benge, and the Great Staplehurst Railway Crash
Read the story of how a simple mistake took the lives of ten people, ruined the life of Henry Benge, and shortened the life of Charles Dickens.
Cursing in Dickens
As the stricter morals of the Victorian era replaced the ribaldry of the 18th-century, Dickens felt compelled to clean up his act. Instances of cursing in the novels dropped dramatically in his mid and late career. For example, below is a count of the full-use of the word "damn" (as opposed to just a capital D or d--d for damn or damned) in Dickens' works:
7 - Sketches by Boz
29 - Pickwick Papers
12 - Nicholas Nickleby
8 - Barnaby Rudge
1 - David Copperfield
3 - Bleak House
3 - Hard Times
3 - Little Dorrit
1 - Tale of Two Cities
3 - Great Expectations
1 - Our Mutual Friend
2 - Edwin Drood
Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese
After Charles Darnay is acquitted of treason he accompanies Sydney Carton "down Ludgate hill to Fleet Street, and so, up a covered way, into a tavern. Here, they were shown into a little room, where Charles Darnay was soon recruiting his strength with a good plain dinner and good wine" (A Tale of Two Cities, p. 77).
This was almost certainly Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese, rebuilt after the great fire of 1666 and a favorite of Dickens.
Read about a visit Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese by Joseph Pennell for Harper's Weekly in November 1887.
The Charles Dickens Page
Bringing the genius of Charles Dickens to a new generation of readers since 1997
About This Site |
Search |
SiteMap |
What's New? |
Dickens & Christmas!
Menu: Select a book by Charles Dickens to learn more about it
Sketches by Boz
Pickwick Papers
Oliver Twist
Nicholas Nickleby
The Old Curiosity Shop
Barnaby Rudge
Martin Chuzzlewit
A Christmas Carol
Christmas Books
American Notes
Pictures from Italy
Dombey and Son
David Copperfield
Bleak House
Hard Times
Little Dorrit
A Tale of Two Cities
Great Expectations
Our Mutual Friend
The Mystery of Edwin Drood
Minor Works
The Uncommercial Traveller
Short Stories
Charles Dickens. The name conjures up visions of plum pudding and Christmas punch, quaint coaching inns and cozy firesides, but also of orphaned and starving children, misers, murderers, and abusive schoolmasters. Dickens was 19th century London personified, he survived its mean streets as a child and, largely self-educated, possessed the genius to become the greatest writer of his age.
Charles Dickens was born on February 7, 1812, the son of a clerk at the Navy Pay Office. His father, John Dickens, continually living beyond his means, was imprisoned for debt in the Marshalsea in 1824. 12-year-old Charles was removed from school and sent to work at a boot-blacking factory earning six shillings a week to help support the family.
Learn more about Charles Dickens:
Learn what it was like to live in Charles Dickens' London.
Explore Charles Dickens' London with an interactive map.
Meet over 1200 Charles Dickens characters, cross referenced, many with the original illustrations.
Learn about Charles Dickens' life, family, and work through an illustrated hypertext biography.
Learn about Charles Dickens' association with the celebration of Christmas.
Learn about Charles Dickens' home Gads Hill Place.
This dark experience cast a shadow over the clever, sensitive boy that became a defining experience in his life, he would later write "It is wonderful to me how I could have been so easily cast away at such an age" (Forster, 1899, v. 1, p. 25).
This childhood poverty and feelings of abandonment, although unknown to his readers until after his death, would be a heavy influence on Dickens' later views on social reform and the world he would create through his fiction.
Dickens would go on to write 15 major novels including, Oliver Twist, Bleak House, Great Expectations, A Tale of Two Cities, and his personal favorite, David Copperfield. He will forever be associated with the celebration of Christmas due to his Christmas Books, the most popular being A Christmas Carol. Dickens also edited, and contributed to, weekly journals Household Words and All the Year Round. Near the end of his life he traveled throughout Britain and America giving public readings of his work.
Charles Dickens died an old man of 57, worn out with work and travel, on June 9, 1870. He wished to be buried, without fanfare, in a small cemetery in Rochester, Kent, but the Nation would not allow it. He was laid to rest in Poet's Corner, Westminster Abbey, the flowers from thousands of mourners overflowing the open grave. Among the more beautiful bouquets were many simple clusters of wildflowers, wrapped in rags.
Explore the World of Charles Dickens
Mapping the Locations in the Novels
Charles Dickens' London
Aerial Charles Dickens' London
Dickens' Rochester/Chatham
Dickens' Higham
Dickens' American Travels 1842
Dickens' American Reading Tour 1867-68
Dickens' Pictures from Italy Map 1844-45
Oliver Twist Map - London Locations
Oliver Twist Map - Outside London
A Tale of Two Cities - London
A Tale of Two Cities - Paris
Great Expectations Connections
Dickens' Reading Tour of England, Scotland, and Ireland 1858
Map of Nell's Journey from The Old Curiosity Shop
The London of Barnaby Rudge
London Map of Dickens' Night Walks
London Locations in Bleak House
Pickwickian Travels
The Many Faces of Ebenezer Scrooge
The Internet Movie Database lists more than 100 actors who have portrayed the famous Dickensian miser. Some of the best are pictured here.
LionelBarrymore
ReginaldOwen
AlistairSim
MisterMagoo
AlbertFinney
YosemiteSam
ScroogeMcDuck
George CScott
BillMurray
RowanAtkinson
MichaelCaine
FredFlintstone
PatrickStewart
KelseyGrammer
JimCarrey
ChristopherPlummer
GuyPierce
WillFerrell
Bits of Dickens...
Short examples of Charles Dickens' work that can be read in a single sitting:
Oliver Asks for More (Oliver Twist)
Cratchit's Christmas (A Christmas Carol)
Steamboat Trip (American Notes)
Omnibuses (Sketches by Boz)
Mrs Gamp (Martin Chuzzlewit)
The Haves and the Have Nots (American Notes)
Mr Pickwick Meets the Lady in Yellow Curl Papers (Pickwick Papers)
More Bits of Dickens
Learn more about Charles Dickens
Life
• Charles Dickens Biography
• The Mystery of Ellen Ternan
• Charles Dickens Timeline
• Dickens Family Tree
Places
• The Charles Dickens Museum
• Dickens' Birthplace Museum
• Gads Hill Place
• The Cleveland Street Workhouse
• Charles Dickens Cigarette Cards
Characters
• Charles Dickens Characters
• Dickens' Character Dolls
Organizations
• The Dickens Fellowship
• The Dickens Society
• The Dickens Project
Special Guests
• Guest contributors to this site
My Favorite Places
• Gina Dalfonzo's DickensBlog
• Where was Dickens?
• Charles Dickens Info
• The Victorian Dictionary
• The Victorian Web
• Charles Dickens' Journals Online
• Charles Dickens' Letters
Affiliate Links Disclosure
The Charles Dickens Page is a member of affiliate programs at Amazon and Zazzle.  This means that there are links that take users to sites where products that we recommend are offered for sale. If purchases are made on these sites The Charles Dickens Page receives a small commission.
Copyright © 1997-
David A. Perdue, All Rights Reserved.
URL: https://www.charlesdickenspage.com/
Last Updated: March 11, 2025
The Charles Dickens Home Page
Contact Information
Privacy Statement