Home - The California Wellness Foundation - The California Wellness Foundation
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Skip to Content
Menu
Mission
Our Story
Board
Staff
Employment
Money
What We Fund
Apply for a Grant
Search Our Grants
Investments
Community
Partner Stories
Voice
Advocacy
News
Staff Perspectives
Take Action
Apply for a Grant
Search
search
close search
Facebook
Bluesky
Youtube
LinkedIn
Strategic Planning at Cal Wellness: We’re Building the Power to Be Well
Guided by the voices and experiences of Californians most impacted by health and racial injustice, the strategic planning process continues the foundation’s commitment to listening, learning, and adapting.
Read More
Our Voices
Pasadena, CA - January 11: From Left - La Toya Andrews and Nancy Ferdinand, Altadena evacuees gather at a donation center set up at First AME Zion Church in Pasadena to help the community effected by the Eaton fire on Saturday, Jan. 11, 2025 in Pasadena, CA.  (Jason Armond / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
Working Together: Supporting Wildfire Recovery
Staff Perspectives
text reads "Wellness Together: Powered by Our Own"
Wellness Together: Building Resilience in California’s Nonprofit Community
Staff Perspectives
Man With Arms Outstretched At Sunset
Looking Back and Moving Forward with Wellness and Resilience
Staff Perspectives
New Hire Announcements THIS VERSION!
The California Wellness Foundation Welcomes John Kim and Kaci Patterson to its Board of Directors
News Release
Shadows of dancers in the sunset
Creating Wellness Through Uplifting Native Culture
Staff Perspectives
Close,Up,Hands,Teamwork,Group,Of,Multi,Racial,People,Meeting
Unity in Diversity: Foundations Reaffirm Commitment to Health Equity Under President-Elect Trump
News Release
Read More
What We Fund
COMMUNITY WELL‑BEING
Communities Leading Transformation
Learn More
Equity in Access
Defending Health Care and Immigrant Rights
Learn More
Economic Security & Dignity
Strengthening the Floor and Raising the Ceiling
Learn More
Leading for Power & Change
Striving for Racial Justice
Learn More
Our Impact
Women of Color Health Initiatives: Impact
The Women’s Initiatives aimed to increase Black and Latinx women’s access to HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention services; and expand employment opportunities and support services for formerly incarcerated Black and Latinx women.
Learn More
What is wellness?
We believe that wellness is more than the absence of illness. Wellness means health of body, mind and spirit. Wellness means an abundance of justice, equity and voice.
Learn More
Sign up for email and stay in the know!
First Name *
Last Name *
E-mail *
Be first to get notified about our strategy, grantmaking and opinions. You can trust us never to share your information and you can unsubscribe anytime.
sign up
Media Inquiries
Privacy Policy and Terms of Use
Contact Us
Resources
The California Wellness Foundation (Los Angeles headquarters)
City National Plaza, 515 S. Flower Street
Suite 1100
Los Angeles, CA, 90071
Tel: (818)­ 702–1900
The California Wellness Foundation (Oakland)
499 14th Street, Suite 300
Oakland, CA 94612
Tel: (415) 908-3000
Facebook
Bluesky
Youtube
© 2020 The California Wellness Foundation.
All Rights Reserved.
Back to top