A Blog About Hyperhidrosis (Excessive Sweating) - My Life as a Puddle
Home
About
Blog
#OMagInsiders – O, The Oprah Magazine
Contact Me
Select Page
celebrating 14 years of hyperhidrosis advocacy 2011-2025
I help people with hyperhidrosis feel better about the skin they’re in.
Here's My Sweaty Story
"
Get 35% off with code PUDDLE
Recent Articles
Why Hyperhidrosis Deserves a Seat at the Table
Mar 5, 2025 | HyperhidrosisGreetings, my fellow sweaty friends. It's been awhile, hasn't it? I'm hoping to blog more on a regular basis soon now that I've completed treatment for thyroid cancer, enrolled my son in preschool several days a week, and am finally coming up for air. Being a...
read more
When Hyperhidrosis Affects Education
May 10, 2024 | HyperhidrosisDo you or your child suffer from hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating) and it's affecting your education in the classroom? If so, you may be able to request what is called a 504 for accommodations (in the U.S.) or an Educational Health Care Plan (EHCP in England)....
read more
I Need Your Vote!
Apr 28, 2024 | Hyperhidrosis, Social Health AwardsThe #SocialHealthAwards celebrate patient leaders who positively impact the lives of patients and caregivers. I’m honored to announce that I have been nominated this year for Advocacy Trailblazer and Lifetime Achievement Award! I’d be so grateful if you considered...
read more
Nominations Now Open for 2024 Social Health Awards
Apr 24, 2024 | HyperhidrosisI Need Your Help Hi sweaty friends. It's once again that time of year when you can help me with my hyperhidrosis advocacy efforts. How? By nominating me for the 2024 Social Health Awards. For many years now, I've been in the running but not selected as a winner. Help...
read more
HealtheVoices 2024
Apr 8, 2024 | HyperhidrosisFor many years now, I've applied to attend Johnson & Johnson's HealtheVoices conference, a leadership program for online health advocates. Will this finally be the year that hyperhidrosis is represented? We'll have to wait and see, but my sweaty fingers are...
read more
Genes & Your Health
Mar 17, 2024 | General Health, HyperhidrosisHave you ever looked in the mirror and thought, “I should be feeling better than this.” You’re not alone. I'm one of those people, too. When I heard about Gary Brecka's genetic test, I wondered if it could actually help me. I already knew I had an MTHFR gene mutation,...
read more
Read More
What is hyperhidrosis?
Hyperhidrosis is excessive sweating. It affects five percent of the global population – that’s 365 million people!
Many people with this condition don’t realize they have it, or that it even has a recognized medical name. Why? Because there is a lot of shame and embarrassment involved. Patients don’t speak up or think it’s a serious enough problem to even mention; therefore, hyperhidrosis is under-diagnosed and under-treated.
Primary focal hyperhidrosis
The excessive sweating is not caused by any underlying condition or medication.
Secondary generalized hyperhidrosis
The excessive sweating is caused by an underlying medical condition or is a side effect of a medication.
Areas of the body affected by hyperhidrosis
Palmar hyperhidrosis = sweaty hands
Plantar hyperhidrosis = sweaty feet
Axillary hyperhidrosis = sweaty underarms
Craniofacial hyperhidrosis = sweaty head and/or face
People may also experience sweat everywhere on their body.
About Me
I’m a storyteller, patient leader, and hyperhidrosis trailblazer.  I’ve lived with hyperhidrosis nearly all of my life and offer a unique perspective on a condition that can be mentally, socially, emotionally, and professionally debilitating.
Meet Me
Join My Newsletter
Leave this field empty if you're human:
FollowFollowFollow
Testimonials
“Maria sheds light on a health issue that so many people have even though it is not well-known. Intelligent posts backed with factual data, written in a way that is articulate and a joy to read.”
Kevin
“As a young sufferer of hyperhidrosis I have found it difficult to explain to others, or even find others who can truly understand my suffering. Maria’s blog has provided me, and undoubtedly many others, with positivity and hope that one day this condition will be more widely recognized, and more successfully treated. Thank you, from one of many.”
Matt
“Extremely well written and edited blog. Content is fresh and provides quality information. Creative while addressing an increasingly difficult health challenge no one likes to talk about! Love the name! Authentic and real!”
Jane
Home
About
Contact Me
Blog
Table of Contents
Privacy Policy
#OMagInsiders – O, The Oprah Magazine
Facebook
X
Instagram
RSS
© My Life as a Puddle