Sidney Perkowitz - Science | Technology | Culture |
Navigation
About Sidney
Books
Frankenstein: How a Monster Became an Icon
Physics: A Very Short Introduction
Hollywood Chemistry
Slow Light
Hollywood Science
Digital People
Universal Foam
Empire of Light
Articles & Essays
Stage & Screen
Appearances
Press
Multimedia
Audio
Video
Contact
About Sidney
Sidney Perkowitz is that rare blend of scientist and artist—a whole-brain thinker. As the Charles Howard Candler Professor of Physics at Emory University, he pursued research on the properties of matter and has produced more than 100 scientific papers and books. He has been...
Read More
Books
Frankenstein 2018: How a Monster Became a Cultural Icon (Forthcoming, Pegasus Books, 2018) Frankenstein, Mary Shelley’s classic story about a tormented synthetic being made in a laboratory, was first published in 1818. In the 200 years since, its impact on literature and the...
Read More
Stage & Screen
Sidney has penned the stage plays Friedmann’s Balloon and Glory Enough. He is also author of the performance-dance piece Albert and Isadora, and he has written a screenplay, Second Obsession. Friedmann’s Balloon Friedmann’s Balloon is a play about the Soviet...
Read More
"A gloriously lucid science writer."
— The Washington Post
Articles & Essays
Sidney Perkowitz has written some 150 online and print articles, essays, blog posts and book chapters on science for popular audiences, including children. His work has appeared in the LA Times, Washington Post, Physics World, and other major media outlets.
Appearances
Sidney’s professional and popular science activities have led to some 600 national and international media and internet appearances, and public lectures.
Multimedia
Watch and listen to conversations with Sidney on everything from artificial life to big-screen science on the radio, podcasts, and video.
Media
Previous
Next
From the American Chemical Society, March 21, 2011
Dr. Kirsten Sanford and Leo Laporte chat with Sidney about Hollywood...
How realistic are the science and physics behind Iron Man? How close are humans to...
It is often said that good stories trump good science. When it’s convenient for...
How realistic is the science and physics behind the new movie Unstoppable? How much...
Arguably humans now interact with each other more digitally than in person. We have...
C-Span aired a panel discussion among scientists and authors about the effect on the...
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4_svhjKoa8
Copyright 2017 Sidney Perkowitz. All rights reserved. Site by Allison O. Adams Editorial & Multimedia