Shock Coffee - High Caffeine Coffee Up to 50% More Caffeine
Sign In
Cart
0
$0.00
0
$0.00
Cart
0
$0.00
0
$0.00
Shop
K-Cups
Ground
Whole Bean
All Coffee
Trial Size
Swag
eGift Cards
Gifts
Reviews
About
FAQ
Contact
The Strongest Caffeinated All-Natural Coffee
GET COFFEE NOW
GROUND 1LB BAG
$15.99lb
$15.99
ADD to cart
Add to cart
✔ Shock Coffee's High Caffeine, High Energy Coffee Provides Great Taste without the Bitterness.
✔ Shock Contains up to 50% More Caffeine than Other Brands.  Lab tested!
✔ Our Carefully Selected Arabica and Robusta - Medium to Dark Roast Blend...
Extra Strength Cups 10ct
10 Count
$14.99
ADD to cart
Add to cart
We've tweaked our blend to give you a stronger tasting and more caffeinated experience!
This all natural K-Cup (no caffeine added) has up to 25% more caffeine than our original.  Even after adding milk or sugar the coffee taste is definitel...
Espresso Cups 10ct
10 Count
$14.99
Add to cart
Shock Coffee Espresso Cups are the smoothest blend we have in two different roasts.  This Dark Roast is the closest a Single Serve Cup can get to real Espresso.
We’ve carefully selected the finest coffee beans to come up with an optimal mixture of...
Get FREE SHIPPING
on all orders over $25
Limited-time Offers
3 Pack
$8.99 each
Ends Soon!
Order Now
Coffee Subscriptions
Make sure you never run out. Get your fix delivered regularly! Convenience AND a sweet deal...
View Subscriptions
Swag
Get your hands on some authentic SHOCK® Coffee brand paraphernalia right here!
Browse Merch
As featured on
Testimonials
“I received the swag package! Thank you so much! We brewed some of the coffee today for everyone here to try. I think it’s great! I worked all weekend (at my second job) so I really needed a kick start this morning!!”
- ROCHELLE WELLS
“The air force base nearby (keesler AFB) has a convenience store (AAFES shoppette) that sells the coffee per cup out of the "Shock, Energy Blend" decorative dispenser. I have used 5-hour Extra Energy, Red Bull & standard coffee and feel nothing. This is the only product I’ve used that works.”
- Randy Stoker
“I just wanted to let you guys know that i tasted your beverage 2 days ago for the first time and it is for lack of a better word “AMAZING”!
I was wondering if i could be sent a care package of your product here in Iraq where I’m currently deployed? Thank you.”
- Dwayne Walcott
“Just wanted to say I love your Shock Coffee and drink it every day while I’m deployed to Iraq. It’s a great wake me up drink or for those long missions. Again thank you for making a great drink sincerely a shock fanatic!”
- Benjamin Watkins
“Your coffee is the best!! Shock coffee gets my whole day charged up!
My order arrived and I brewed a pot right away. I have been cranked up every since!!!!!!! Great tasting,and aromatic coffee beans. Charged up here in VIRGINIA!!!!!!”
- D. Lewis
“When I got the package I was overwhelmed by the size of the sample and out of excitement showed it to everyone around. The coffee came in big during finals and I will surely be a returning customer. Thanks again and you have a great product.”
- Moshe Spira
“Thank you, I just tried your coffee this morning and had to order some. Not only do I like the extra caffeine but it is really great tasting coffee and that means alot coming from me. Thanks again and I can’t wait to receive my order.”
- John Somers
“I am a big fan of Coffee. Other than water it’s all I drink.
So when I found this I had to run with it. It’s cheaper than red Bull, has more power than it. It’s better for you than red bull, and it has a nice flavor that does not leave an aftertaste.
My frig is stocked with it as I type!”
- David from Rhode Island
“I LOVE THIS STUFF!
Shock Coffee really works! I needed to try a new coffee because my body became so accustomed to the stuff I’d been drinking for more than a year. Thank you!
P. S. I am an athlete (natural bodybuilder and fitness competitor, and Shock Coffee really gives me the boost I need to get through my workouts.”
- Rachelle from Maryland
“I purchased The Barista Coffee House about two months ago. On my first day of ownership, I brought in the full line of Shock Coffee. I serve 10 different brands of coffee daily, from flavored coffee to my two house brands: a java and an espresso.
In just two months, Shock Coffee is selling in the number three spot behind the two house coffees.”
- Carl Zeuner - Jazzoo Wholesale
Subscribe to Shock Newsletter
Subscribe now for 10% off your first order. Receive exclusive offers, brewing tips and more.
100% Satisfaction Guaranteed. No Hassle Returns If You Don't Fall in Love.
Customer Service
Shockline: 888-337-4625
Help Center (FAQs)
Contact Us
Shipping Info
Returns & Exchanges
Wholesale
Company Info
About Us
Testimonials
News & Press
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Our Guarantee
My Account
Create an Account
My Account
My Orders
Add Your Reviews
Connect With Us
©2020 Shock Coffee LLC, All Rights Reserved. Toll free: 888-337-4625 | Made in Queens, NY