Game Theory .net - Music and artists with game theory themes
Geeks
Professionals
Students
Educators
Pop Culture
Game theory in film, music, and fiction.
view pop culture
Film
Television
Music
Theater
Fiction
Game theory in music
While only a few experimental composers have actually adopted game theoretic themes into composition,
game theory has influenced numerous band and album titles.
Artist
Description
Clips(more info)
More info at
Game Theory
Early 1990's band named Game Theory after "a theory of probability that's a mathematical discipline that
more or less has been applied improperly to real-life situations."
>> read about how this relates to game theory
(Rock & Pop)
Interview with lead singer
Movie scene: A clip from a live performance by the band.
Luke Harrald
Experimental composer, software engineer, and doctoral student Luke Harrald composes around themes in computer science and game theory.
(Experimental)
>> biography,
>> online compositions
The Roots
Acclaimed hip hop band's latest album is titled "Game Theory," though the source of the name is not known.
(Hip Hop, 2006)
Web Site
Movie clip: album promotional video
Sonic Youth
"[The album] Murray Street is perhaps best seen as a product of cooperative game theory.
Like all Sonic Youth albums, it is a result of individuals, striving in a collectivist environment, for goals that are only understood once they are achieved."
(Punk, 2002)
Web Site, Source of above quote
Sound clip: A snippet of "Disconnection Notice" off the Murray Street album.
Nick Didkovsky
Head of "avant-rock" ensemble Doctor Nerve,
guitarist and music programmer Nick Didkovsky incorporates conflict, resolution, and strategic themes into his compositions.
His work, Lottery, models a public goods contribution game in composition.
(Experimental)
Article on Lottery (through JStor)
Planet Funk
This Italian electronic dance music band's album, Non Zero Sumness, is apparently titled after Robert Wright's book, Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny.
The book argued that ever increasing "non-zero sumness" is the destiny of humankind."
(Electronica, 2000)
Web Site
Sound clip: A snippet from the album.
The Prisoners Dilemma
An Orange County, California, based hard rock band. The origin of the name is unknown.
(Hard Rock)
Web Site, Interview
Sound clip: A snippet of their song, "Arrival."
Iannis Xenakis
Engineer turned classical composer, Xenakis formulated musical reflections of game theory with two "competing" orchestras in his compositions Duel and Strategie, both defined as "games for two orchestras."
(Classical)
Fan Web Site
A book analyzing the role of mathematics in the compositions of Xenakis.
Sound clips: Samples from two (non-game-theoretic) compositions.
Suggestions? Corrections? Contact us.
Q U I C K L I N K S:
Home
About
Privacy
Copyright
FAQ
Updates
Contact
Game Theory .net© Mike Shor 2001-2006
game theory .net home
lectures
books
dictionary
tests
culture
news
interactive
games
links