Home
Menu
Home| About Us| News| Dilemma| Remedy| Contact Us| Login
You are here: Home
Welcome to Interactive People Development
Interactive People Development - making things happen ...
The basis of business performance …
- Responding to change
- Motivating and developing your people
- Finding new markets and new products
... will depend on the qualities, capabilities and desires of your people.
At IPD, we understand the challenges businesses are facing in the rapidly changing times we find ourselves in.
We take the time to discuss with you your specific business goals, needs and training requirements to develop training, development and/or coaching solutions to help you maximise your business potential.
What We Do
Enable your people and you enable profit ...
IPD create exciting, liberating and motivating learning for individuals, teams and organisations, enabling knowledge, skills and competencies leading to whole person development.
What’s good for your people is good for your organisation.
As listed in
Latest News
Funded flexible University qualifications
IPD have joined alliances to be able to offer this unique suite of qualifications though an English University.
Read more ...
New on-line profiling tools launched
How capable are your people - and ultimately your business - to perform effectively...?
Read more ...
Our Services
Sales
Leadership
Bid management
Winning negotiations
Customer service
Performance coaching
Performance development
Continuous improvement strategies
Managing change and conflict
Profiling tools
Testimonials
"The Negotiation Skills course from IPD was one of the best prepared and delivered training events I have received.IPD worked with us to define and deliver a course which  met our requirements and was worked around the industry and market we sold to.
"The training events themselves were very interactive and challenging to the individuals and they all thoroughly enjoyed them.
"Importantly they are using the language of the course back in the workplace , so we know  the point of the training has struck home."
DirectorBT Business
Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions
"It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change"
Charles Darwin
"I'm a great believer in luck and I find the harder I work, the more I have of it"
Thomas Jefferson
"If you don't know where you are going, you'll end up someplace else"
Yogi Berra
Email us
...
Copyright @ ipdl.co.uk 2013
Designed by
Value Web Designs