Home - Jill Prevost
About
Jill Prevost
Testimonials
Concierge
Properties
Active Listings
Sold Listings
Recent Buys
Buy / Sell
Buyers
Sellers
Media
Publications
Contact
Contact
FR
Select Page
Featured Listings
View More
99 2e RUE, SAINT-ZOTIQUE
$675,000
View More
253-257 MELVILLE, WESTMOUNT
$1,895,000
View All Listings
Hot off the PressJill’s Realty Reviews
READ FULL ARTICLES HERE
GIVING BACK
Being able to give back to those less fortunate is my ultimate satisfaction and as such, I am a  proud supporter of :
Since 1934, the Jewish General Hospital (JGH) has been providing cutting‑edge treatment and compassionate care to patients from diverse religious and cultural backgrounds in Montreal, throughout Quebec and beyond. This 637‑bed McGill University teaching hospital is one of the province’s largest and busiest acute-care hospitals.
It is the only organization in Montreal which takes a multifaceted approach to respond to the needs of homeless youth and youth at risk. The donation funds the services and programs (van, emergency shelter, school, employment, psychologists, nurses, apartments, family services, etc.) adapted to their’ needs.
Cookie Policy
Privacy Statement
Manage Consent
To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent