Bosom Buddies TV Show
Bosom Buddies
Series Description
The Bosom Buddies TV show was a 30 minute comedy series on ABC about two young men who can't afford much for an apartment in New York City so when a friend suggested a place that's nice and affordable, they dropped everything to go look at it. It was everything the friend said it would be except for one small problem ... the apartments were for rent to females only! So, with no other options, they donned dresses, wigs, and pantyhose and moved right in! Most of the comedy revolved around their hiding their true genders from everyone and the outrageous situations they found themselves in while posing as young ladies.
Bosom Buddies Cast
Tom Hanks .... Kip/Buffy Wilson
Peter Scolari .... Henry/Hildegard Desmond
Wendie Jo Sperber .... Amy Cassidy
Donna Dixon .... Sonny Lumet
Telma Hopkins .... Isabelle Hammond
Holland Taylor .... Ruth Dunbar
Lucille Benson .... Lilly Sinclair
Bosom Buddy Trivia:
The Bosom Buddies characters' first names, Kip and Henry, came from two bars located in Berkeley, California named, "Kips'" and "Henry's".
Peter Scolari had not seen his last starring role when Bosom Buddies left the air! His other TV starring roles include "Baby Makes Five (1983)", "Newhart (1982)", "The Family Album (1993)", "The Mommies (1993)", "Gargoyles (Voice) (1994)", "Dweebs (1995)", "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids (1997)", and "From the Earth to the Moon Miniseries (1990)". Even before his role on Bosom Buddies, he starred on "Goodtime Girls (1980) and "Wally Brown (1979)"! And that's not counting his numerous guest-starring roles!
Kip and Henry worked at the "Livingston, Gentry, and Mishkin" advertising agency.
Tom Hanks must be the most disciplined human on Earth when it comes to his control over food consumption! He gained, then lost 30 pounds for his role on "A League of Their Own (1992)". Then he lost and regained 30 pounds for his role on "Philadelphia (1993)". But his biggest gastronomical accomplishment was gaining and then losing more than FIFTY pounds for his "Cast Away (2000)" performance!
Donna Dixon was a natural choice to play the beautiful Sonny Lumet. Four years earlier in 1976, she won the "Miss Virginia" title. The next year she won the "Miss District of Columbia" title and was 1st runner-up to the 1977 "Miss USA"! One of Donna's best friends is Fran Drescher, star of "The Nanny (1993)" and "Living With Fran (2005)"!
For some strange reason, they recorded the first (Pilot) episode of Bosom Buddies on film and then shot the rest of the series on videotape.
Bosom Buddies Theme Song
Title: "My Life"
Written By: "Billy Joel"
Performed By: "Tom Hanks" and "Peter Scolari"
Got a call from an old friend
We used to be real close
Said he couldn't go on the American way
Closed the shop, sold the house
Bought a ticket to the West Coast
Now he gives them a stand-up routine in L.A.
I don't need you to worry for me cause I'm alright
I don't want you to tell me it's time to come home
I don't care what you say anymore, this is my life
Go ahead with your own life, and leave me alone
I never said you had to offer me a second chance
I never said I was a victim of circumstance
I still belong, don't get me wrong
And you can speak your mind
But not on my time
They will tell you you can't sleep alone
In a strange place
Then they'll tell you you can't sleep
With somebody else
But sooner or later you sleep
In your own space
Either way it's okay
You wake up with yourself.
Bosom Buddies Opening Narrative
(Voices of Peter Scolari as Henry and Tom Hanks as Kip)
Henry: When we came to New York we had a great apartment that was dirt cheap.
Kip:  And we found out why it was so cheap (As a wrecking ball breaks through the walls of the building)
Henry: Our friend Amy said there was a great apartment in her building. Dirt Cheap.
Kip: But it's a hotel for women. OK! We made one adjustment.
Henry: Now these other ladies know us as Buffy and Hildegarde.
Kip: But they also know us as Kip and Henry, Buffy and Hildy's brothers. I'm crazy about the blonde.
Henry: This experience is going to make a great book.
Kip: See it's all perfectly normal.
Find Thousands of
Your Favorite Shows
At Our
Home Page
Thank you for visiting our Bosom Buddies TV show page!
Copyright © 1997-Present CrazyAboutTV.comAll rights reserved