Home - Northeastern University Oakland
Skip to content
About
About Overview
Campus and Location
Buildings and Facilities
The Arts
Our Team
Departments and Offices
Contact Us
Visit Us
Events and performances
Academics
Academics Overview
Academic Resources
Experiential Entrepreneurship
Experiential Entrepreneurship Overview
Speaker Series Videos
Partnerships
Research
Student Life
Student Life Overview
Housing and Dining
Housing and Dining Overview
Residential Options
Housing FAQs
Campus Safety
Health and Wellness
Health and Wellness Overview
Counseling and Psychological Services
Student Support Services
Student Support Services Overview
Access Services
Access Services Overview
International Student Support
Writing and Tutoring Center
Career Design
Student Activities
Student Activities Overview
The Center for Leadership, Equity, and Excellence
Clubs and Organizations
Student Government
Spiritual and Religious Life
LGBTQ+ Resources
Parenting Student Resources
Sports and Recreation
College Events
Mail and Copy Center
Mail and Copy Center Overview
Mail and Copy Center FAQs
Accommodations
site search input
NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY OAKLAND
Our West Coast hub for experiential learning, research, and entrepreneurship
Discover the power of experience in the culturally diverse, vibrant Bay Area.
About our Oakland campus
Immersive learning. Collaborative problem solving. A spirit of innovation. Join a tight-knit community of like-driven classmates and colleagues drawn to the creative, entrepreneurial spirit that makes the Bay Area one of the world’s most dynamic and economically important regions. Find out how what you do and experience here will deepen the impact of your work everywhere.
Learn more
Undergraduate Programs
Degrees with an edge
Explore your interests through degrees and interdisciplinary majors spanning business, healthcare, science, and technology. Whichever major you choose, your studies will be enriched by our Experiential Entrepreneurship programming and real-world learning opportunities throughout the Bay Area.
Explore our programs
graduate Programs
Industry-aligned master’s programs
Choose from master’s degree programs that align with your goals and the fastest-growing fields. Through our Experiential Network (XN), you’ll build skills and experience that prepare you for your next professional step, supported by our extensive global network of alumni and partner organizations.
Explore our graduate programs
Innovative Solutions
Experience-driven research
Partner with us to solve challenges facing your organization and society through collaborations with our interdisciplinary faculty experts. Focusing on health, security, and sustainability—with expertise in aerospace engineering, cognitive and information sciences, and social impact and innovation—our research model leads to globally scalable solutions.
Learn about our research partnerships
A thriving network of opportunities
With locations in California’s Silicon Valley, Seattle, and Vancouver, British Columbia, you’ll have plenty of opportunity to earn real-world experience and collaborate on research here, and across our entire global network.
You’ll also have access to academic, research, and career development opportunities across geographic, sociopolitical, and cultural contexts as well as global resources to effect change.
17,380
Northeastern and Mills College alumni in the San Francisco Bay Area—320,000+ worldwide—ready to connect, support, and mentor
3,200+
co-op employer partners worldwide, with 250+ in the Bay Area, where you can gain professional experience
2,000+
startups with whom to connect throughout Oakland
1,400+
Bay Area co-op students hired by high-tech giants like Meta, PayPal, and Toast since 2018
1,250
Oakland-based nonprofits to work with on solving issues of social impact
KEEP UP TO DATE
News and community
In Oakland, Farm Fest Unites the Local Community
Mar. 19, 2025 | Kate Rix | NGN
Christie Chung Wrote Her New Book to Inspire Future Leaders
Mar. 10, 2025 | Cyrus Moulton | NGN
How Digital Therapy Video Games Help Rehabilitation
Feb. 27, 2025 | Kate Rix | NGN
Read more news
5000 MacArthur BoulevardOakland, CA 94613510.430.2255
Oakland Campus
Contact us
Visit us
Job openings
Policies and accreditation
We use cookies to improve your experience on our sites. By continuing to use our sites, you agree to our Privacy Statement.
Accept and Continue