4-H & Youth | Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Clinton County
Skip to main content
ISU
News
Store
Contact Us
Offices
Submit Search
Social Media
Facebook
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
Menu
Clinton County
Main navigation
4-H & Youth
Open dropdown menu
4-H Online
Clover Kids
Club Resources
County Fair
Join 4-H
Newsletter
Project Areas
Recognition/Awards
Record Keeping
Volunteer Resources
Youth Programs
Agriculture & Environment
Open dropdown menu
Ag Decision Maker
Manure Applicator Certification Programs
Master Gardener Program
Private Pesticide Applicator Continuing Instruction Course
Community Development
Open dropdown menu
Data for Decision Makers
Goal Setting, Strategic Planning, and Facilitation
Grant Writing 101
Family & Food
Open dropdown menu
ServSafe®
Strengthening Families Program: For Parents and Youth 10-14
About Us
Open dropdown menu
Clinton County Staff
Clinton County Extension Council
Clinton County Jobs
Impact Report
4-H & Youth
About 4-H
Iowa 4-H Youth Development is the premier youth development program of Iowa State University Extension and Outreach. Providing research-based education to K-12 youth, Iowa 4-H focuses on Healthy Living, STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math), Leadership and Civic Engagement, and Communication and the Arts. Iowa 4-H builds upon more than a century of experience in positive youth development partnering with youth to help them find their passion. For more information, please visit the Iowa 4-H website.
Check out the latest Stakeholder's Report for Clinton County.
Contact Us
Clarissa Jacobsen
cjj2@iastate.edu
(563) 659-5125
Clinton County 4-H Resources
4hOnline Link
Clover Kids
Club Resources
County Fair
Join 4-H
Newsletter
Project Areas
Recognition/Awards
Record Keeping
Volunteer Resources
Youth Programs
Clinton County 4-H Foundation
The Clinton County 4-H Endowment Fund is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization that works in partnership with the Iowa 4-H Foundation and the Clinton County Extension Council to provide financial resources for youth development through 4-H.
We provide the financial resources to develop, deliver and enhance quality 4-H youth programs throughout Clinton County. These opportunities help young people enhance their ability to use critical thinking, leadership, communication, and social skills – tools that will give them a competitive edge in their future endeavors.
Youth involved in the 4-H and Clover Kids programs in Clinton County are eligible to apply for financial assistance for a wide variety of youth development programs, events and scholarships.
The Clinton County Endowment Fund is supported by fundraisers held by the Clinton County 4-H Foundation Committee and by memorial donations and monetary gifts.  All proceeds are only used towards 4-H youth educational purposes.
Past Foundation Support
Academic scholarships
To youth pursuing higher education
In memory of Tom Olson
In Memory of Charles Goddard
Financial scholarships for camps and trips
Citizenship Washington Focus
4-H Junior Adventure Camp
Iowa 4-H Youth Conference
Animal Science Round-up
Enrollment assistance for youth
New club start-up assistance
Supporting Clinton County 4-H members by contributing $5 of the annual enrollment fee for all Clinton County 4-H members enrolled by December 1st annually .
Application for Assistance
4-H Endowment Application for Assistance - send to clinton4h@iastate.edu or mail to the Clinton County Extension Office at 400 E 11th St, DeWitt, IA 52742
How to Support the Foundation
Sponsorship Levels Brochure - Updated October 2022
4-H Memorial Donation or Gift (please include this form along with your donation)
Donate online at, next to "I would like to support" select "Other" and type in "Clinton County 4-H"
Purchase a cake at the annual cake auction! All cake buyers are treated as a sponsor as listed in the sponsorship levels brochure.
Quarterly Email Newsletters
December 2021 - Issue 1
April 2022 - Issue 2
October 2022 - Issue 3
January 2023 - Issue 4
April 2023 - Issue 5
November 2023 - Issue 6
Basketball Tournament & Cake Auction
2024 Tournament & Cake Auction
Who: 4-12th grade Clinton County 4-H members
When: March 16
Where: Central-DeWitt High School
Cost: $10/player
Register: with this form by 3/11
Basketball Tournament Brackets - View this Google Doc! Or view as a PDF.
Clubs who want to donate a cake, please let Amanda know at clinton4h@iastate.edu. The Office can pay for the cake ahead of time if we have a funds request form filled out!
Copyright © 1995-
Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.
Policies
State & National Extension Partners
Contact Clinton County
400 East 11th Street
DeWitt, IA 52742
clintoncounty@iastate.edu
563-659-5125
Hotlines
Calendar
Email
Staff Directory
Blogs
Store
Staff Resources:
Staff Login
MyExtension