sgrho-als
Greater Service, Greater Progress
Cart
0
$0.00
Menu
Home
About us
Executive Board
Contact
ALS Sorors Only
Member login
Member registration
Scholarship
Golden Legacy
Undergraduate Chapters
Affiliates
ALS Rhoer Club
ALS Philos
ALS Rhosebud Club
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
More
Alpha Lambda Sigma ChapterofSigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc.Cleveland, Ohio
Alpha Lambda Sigma embodies the mission of our illustrious Founders to enhance the quality of life for women and their families through community service, civil, and social action. We are intentional in our work as we develop leaders and expand partnerships to create unlimited opportunities for present and future generations in the Cleveland area.Thank you for visiting our website.
Contact us
Our work
ESTABLISHED ON NOVEMBER 12, 1922
Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. was organized on November 12, 1922, in Indianapolis, Indiana, by seven young educators: Mary Lou Allison Gardner Little, Dorothy Hanley Whiteside, Vivian Irene White Marbury, Nannie Mae Gahn Johnson, Hattie Mae Annette Dulin Redford, Bessie Mae Downey Rhoades Martin, and Cubena McClure. The group became an incorporated national collegiate sorority on December 30, 1929, when a charter was granted to the Alpha chapter at Butler University. Since its inception, the dynamic women of Sigma Gamma Rho have built and sustained a well-known and well-respected reputation for leading positive change to help uplift the community through sisterhood, leadership, and service.
Photo Gallery
Contact
P.O. Box 210133 | South Euclid, Ohio 44121info@sgrho-als.com
Cookies
We use cookies to enable the proper functioning and security of our website, and to offer you the best possible user experience.
Accept only necessary
Accept all
Advanced settings
You can customize your cookie preferences here. Enable or disable the following categories and save your selection.
Essential cookies
The essential cookies are essential for the safe and correct operation of our website and the registration process.
Functional cookies
Functional cookies remember your preferences for our website and enable its customization.
Performance cookies
Performance cookies monitor the performance of our website.
Marketing / third party cookies
Marketing cookies allow us to measure and analyze the performance of our website.
Save