Berlin School Hypnotica Synth Jam – Synthtopia
Skip to content
Menu
Home
About Synthtopia
Advertising
Feedback & Site Tips
Submit Items for Review
Synthtopia
Berlin School Hypnotica Synth Jam
Here’s a nice hypnotic synth jam, Viewing Paris from the Eiffel Tower, via attorks.
Technical details below:
Its quite warm in the Netherlands these last few days and the attic, were my equipment is, is even more warmer. But I managed to video this improvisation. Row 1 of the Doepfer MAQ16/3 has an 8-step sequence for the self-built Modular. Row 2 is used to gate the Ian Fritz All-In EG which envelope is connected to the Resonant LoPass Gate clone. The Formant noise is fed to the input of the LPG clone. Row 3 of the MAQ16/3 is shifting the Synthesizers.com Q960 sequencer which has sequences on row 1 and 3 which are alternated by the Q962 sequencer switch. Row 2 of the Q960 is connected to the Q150 Transistor Ladder Filter to modulate the frequency level. In the second part of the video the Waldorf Q Keyboard joins with chords and the Clavia Nord Lead 1 and the Roland XP-80 performs some improvised solo’s. The original video is somewhat more than 12 minutes so I skipped the first 2 minutes because I did not want to cut off the end. You can view the original video on my website soon.
My daughter Tessa is on a school trip to Paris for a few days and this evening she phoned from the top of the Eiffel Tower, which explains the title.
June 30, 2010June 30, 2010 synthheadSynthesizersBerlin School, Clavia, DotCom, electronic, Formant, keyboard, Lead, Martin, modular, modular synthesizer, Nord, Peters, q960, Q962, Roland, sequencer, synth jam, synthesizer, Synthesizers.com, Waldorf, XP-80
12 thoughts on “Berlin School Hypnotica Synth Jam”
icke
June 30, 2010 at 6:24 pm
Reply
boring
ELEMENT115
June 30, 2010 at 7:00 pm
Reply
redundant
Lazlo DellaPolla
July 1, 2010 at 3:46 am
Reply
AWESOME! Hahahhah just had to change the direction of the comments. Yeah it was a pretty repetitive for 8ish minutes but hey guy just needs to synth better..
ELEMENT115
July 1, 2010 at 2:58 pm
Reply
Agreed
Flancher
July 1, 2010 at 3:28 pm
Reply
And I though Berlin School synth music was supposed to have repetitive synth riffs!
al fugazi
July 2, 2010 at 3:23 pm
Reply
yawn,,,
MirlitronOne
July 3, 2010 at 11:40 pm
Reply
The first six hours were the best.
MirlitronOne
July 3, 2010 at 11:41 pm
Reply
(Okay, cheap shot for humorous effect. I actually rather liked the tune and the sounds obtained.)
Ben Jarvis
July 4, 2010 at 6:28 am
Reply
I don't get these comments. What did you expect from a Berlin School jam? I mean what kind of crazy madness was he gonna get up to? A 64th note maybe? This is CLOCKWORK music. I mean it's not free Jazz.
synthhead
July 4, 2010 at 2:22 pm
Reply
And if you add a solo, it's suddenly complete wankery.
carlo celuque
July 8, 2010 at 5:58 pm
Reply
Great Berlin school electronic music.
Congratulations!
Very Good!
JRice
July 19, 2010 at 7:13 pm
Reply
Well, *I* liked it.  Definitely Berlin style.  (Actually, I thought the Mellotron was a little gratuitously so.)
Yes, it could have used more dynamics, but for a live performance (and clearly improvised)… great stuff.  And the sounds were all quite nice.  I'd download the track (for free), and it would probably see quite a few plays…
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Δ
Post navigation
Previous Post Granite Granular Synthesizer For WindowsNext Post iamamiwhoami Remixed
Topics
Android Music App
Apple iPad
Articles
Audio Interfaces
Computer Hardware
Computer Music
Controllerism
DJ
Drum Machines & Groove Boxes
Electronic Instruments
Electronic Music & Recording Gear
Electronic Musicians
Free Music
Free Music Software
Free Sample Library
Garageband
Gear Reviews
Hardware Effects
Interviews
iPhone Music Software
iPods & Portable Media Players
Keyboard Synthesizers
Microphones
MIDI Controllers
MIDI Interfaces
Mixers
Modular Synthesizers
Music Book Reviews
Music News
Music Reviews
Music Videos
Music Websites
Notation
Patch Editors
Recording
Reference
Reviews
Samplers
Samples & Loops
Sequencers
Software Effects & Audio Processors
Software Reviews
Software Sequencers
Software Synthesizers & Samplers
Speakers & Monitors
Strange
Synthesizers
theremin
User Reviews
Virtual Instruments
Virtual Musicians
VJ
Workstations
Search
Search for:
What People Are Talking About Behringer Synth Prices Jump In US, Following New Tariffs
Moog Retires Subsequent 25, With Pricing Slashed 30% on Remaining Stock
Elektron Unleashes Double D Update, Bringing New Features To Digitakt & Digitone
AI-Generated Works Are Public Domain, Court Affirms
Serum 2 Gets Massive Update, And It's Free For Existing Users
Moog Music Unveils Red Geddy Lee Minimoog Model D Synthesizer
Remembering Paul Schreiber Of Synthesis Technology
Cherry Audio Intros KR-55C Drum Machine VST
New Interview With Brian Eno
Behringer Intros MS-1 MKII Gray
Something To Think About
If you grow up in a very strong religion, like Catholicism, you certainly cultivate in yourself a certain taste for the intensity of ideas. You expect to be engaged with ideas strongly, whether you are for or against them.If you are part of a religion that very strongly insists that you believe, then to decide not to do that is quite a big hurdle to jump over. You never forget the thought process you went through. It becomes part of your whole intellectual picture.
— Brian Eno
2004-2025 Synthtopia, All Rights Reserved