Indianapolis Real Estate | Ronda Pollock |
Search For Homes Featured Listings   Buyer Resources Seller Resources First Time Buyers What's My Home Worth Get Pre-Approved Community Links Community Profiles Neighborhood Profiles Mortgage Calculator How Much Can I Afford?
Home
Search For Homes
Resources
Blog
About Ronda
Contact
ABOUT RONDA
Click here to learn more about Ronda Pollock and how she can help you buy or sell the home of your dreams.
Recent Blog Posts
Welcome
Follow Us
Welcome to your Indianapolis Real Estate Resource with Ronda Pollock
Hello, I’m Ronda Pollock and I’m partnered with the F.C. Tucker Company. I am very excited to have the opportunity to work with you and your real estate needs. It’s my goal to make your transaction a smooth and enjoyable transition for you.
I’d like to let you know a bit about myself:
I have a terrific husband, Steve, who is a contractor and we have two boys. Luke is a college student and Sam is a senior at Avon High School. We have been married for 29 years. We both enjoy every aspect of real estate. We have remodeled several homes for our family and have been in the rental business for several years.
I began my real estate career in February 2002. I have been a consistent top producer. My fundamental belief is that we should “police our own” and with that said, have volunteered two three-year terms on the Metropolitan Board of Realtors Grievance Committee and currently hold a seat on the Professional Standards Board.
I received my broker’s designation in January 2004. I have numerous designations including:
Relocation Inventory Specialist
Destination Services Specialist
Marketing Assistance Specialist
E Certified Certification
Multi-Million Dollar Club
Presidents Society (top 3% nationally)
Member, MIBOR – Metropolitan Indianapolis Board of Realtors
Member, NAR – National Association of Realtors
Member, IAR – Indiana Association of Realtors
How Can Ronda Pollock Help You:
I am one of the lucky few who can honestly say, “I LOVE MY JOB!” Since my real estate “debut”, I have always looked forward to getting to work. I have met wonderful people and have made life-long friendships along the way. The majority of my business comes from referrals from past clients.
Rest assured that I am confident in my ability to help you buy or sell your home in the shortest period of time and with the best terms possible.
If you’re looking for a Realtor® in the Indianapolis or surrounding areas, contact me today and I’ll make your next move a great one!
Click here for hundreds of homes currently listed in Indianapolis. Find your first, next or investment home in Indianapolis, Avon, Speedway, Brownsburg, Carmel, Greenwood, Plainfield, Marion County and all the best communities in the region. Here is your finest resource for home information, photos, property descriptions, maps, tax info, schools, etc. Follow this link Indianapolis Area Homes for Sale to get started.
© 2010 Ronda Pollock - F.C. Tucker Company, Inc. | Site by: Indianapolis Web Design - InspireMedia | Theme By: Real Estate Agents