3 day trip to Montreal - Review of Montreal, Quebec - Tripadvisor
Montreal
Montreal Tourism
Montreal Hotels
Montreal Bed and Breakfast
Montreal Vacation Rentals
Flights to Montreal
Montreal Restaurants
Things to Do in Montreal
Montreal Travel Forum
Montreal Photos
Montreal Map
All Montreal Hotels
Montreal Hotel Deals
Last Minute Hotels in Montreal
Skip to main contentDiscoverTripsReviewMoreUSDSign in Inbox See all Sign in to get trip updates and message other travelers. Montreal Hotels Things to Do Restaurants Flights Vacation Rentals Travel Stories Cruises Rental Cars Tours Add a Place Travel Forum Airlines Travelers' Choice Help Center
3 day trip to Montreal - Montreal
Canada  Quebec  Montreal
Search
“3 day trip to Montreal”
Review of Montreal
Also show
Hotels
Restaurants
Things to Do
Neighborhoods
Also show
MapSatellite
Map updates are paused. Zoom in to see updated info. Reset zoom
Updating Map...
Neighborhoods
Neighborhoods
Return to Map
53917
Photos
Mrs-E-Malik
toronto
“3 day trip to Montreal”
Reviewed April 7, 2009
Location: Montreal, QuebecDate: February 2009This trip to Montreal was extremely last minute. My husband & I decided to take a road trip to Montreal from Toronto Ontario and it was magnificent! although the trip was only 3 days long, we made the most of it having done some research prior to our arrival. We stayed at Holiday inn express 3 star hotel on RENE-LEVESQUE. this is where all the major hotels are located, within walking distance of EVERYTHING downtown. We were able to get 2 nights at the hotel including breakfast for under $50 a night (courtesy of hotwire.com) Staff were helpful & friendly.we did not need the car during our stay as everything was within a short walking distance, other than mount royal & Casino of Montreal (which were both 10-12 mins drive from downtown)There are many museums, galleries & restaurants downtown. There is artwork to be found anywhere & everywhere in this city. Being British, it reminded me of little Europe =)It was pretty cold at night but extremely sunny during the daytime, and thankfully no snow! 'The underground city' is amazing & easy to follow. We had a lovely short trip, & are planning to go back in the summer when there are scheduled to be lots of events & festivals going on. (we missed the winter festivals unfortunately)Overall the trip was affordable, many galleries & museums were free or cheap... wish we had a few extra days though!!! PLACES TO VISIT (in no particular order)MOUNT ROYALST.CATHERINES (the main shopping strip)MUSEUM OF FINE ARTSOLD MONTREALMUSEUM OF HISTORY & ARCHAEOLOGYCASINO MONTREALNOTRE DAME BASILLIQUE
Helpful?
1
Thank Mrs-E-Malik
Report
Ask Mrs-E-Malik about Montreal
This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC.
TravelBe
Atlanta, Georgia
“Montreal, the Hyatt, & Snow at Christmas-what more would you want!?”
Reviewed December 31, 2008
Just flew in from a fantastic week in Montreal, enjoying great food, lots of snow, and very friendly people. Cannot say enough about our hotel, the Hyatt downtown. Perfect location, great staff, gorgeous decor, 10th floor view of the city and snow, and delicious food. Shopping was great and we charged everything for a better exchange rate. Ventured out of the city to Old Town (fun shopping and awesome pics), Latin Quarters( great food and photo ops), Mount Royal Parc, museums, China Town (amazing bakery & fun shopping), and Little Italy. We booked a package through Expedia and flew Delta direct flight from Atlanta. Cannot say one good thing about Delta. I booked the trip 2 mos. in advance and they changed the type of plane 4 times before we even left. 2 seats on each side-overhead was so small we had to check in our carry ons. Horrible flight, plane, and staff very rude.Loved the Canadians. People that spoke English would stop and ask us about our economy-they seemed very concerned about Americans. Great place to spend winter if you're from the south. Heard it was 70/ raining in Atlanta and we were playing in, what they said felt like, -25 snow. Fun,Fun,Fun!
Helpful?
Thank TravelBe
Report
Ask TravelBe about Montreal
This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC.
rumboogie
Cleveland, Ohio
“If you love great architecture”
Reviewed December 3, 2008
and quaint boutiques then you'll adore Montreal. I was fascinated by its beautiful old buildings, sidewalk cafes and chic restaurants. Montreal makes for a great getaway during the summer. It's a romantic place to take a stroll and just spend time exploring. Mmm!
Helpful?
Thank rumboogie
Report
Ask rumboogie about Montreal
This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC.
gabrielan882
Luxembourg
“From Toronto to Montreal, flight vs. VIA -experience compared”
Reviewed November 29, 2008
I went for a day trip to Montreal, flying in from Toronto Island Airport and returning via VIA Rail. Here is my experience and my recommendations.Going to Island airport, note that taking the first GO train in will likely not get you to the airport in time, if you are catching the first plane out, at 6:55 am, which arrives in Montreal at 8am. Parking at the airport is brutally expensive, at $34 per day, plus taxes. I suggest parking elsewhere, I now heard that there is a parking about 500m away from the airport for less than $10 per day at the south side of Queens Quay, just east of Dan Leckie Way. See "Toronto Arriving & Departing" on Trip Advisor.The best way is to take either the 509 streetcar from Union or the shuttle that leaves from in front of the West entrance to the Royal York hotel and is free. Mind that you need enough time to take the shuttle, and then take the very short ferry which runs about every 10 min across to the island and then check in. The lounge is amazing, comfortable, modern, free coffee and snacks. The planes were very clean, the staff was great. You do not need to arrive as early as at the international airport, of course. The plane boards about 30 min before departure.Arriving at Montreal airport, Trudeau International Airport (formerly Dorval Airport). To get out of the airport may be tricky. The Taxi to city centre will cost you $38 plus tip (make sure you get the flat rate). The shuttle is slightly less, at $15 (or $18 now?) but adds up if there are more people in the party, as it is per person, and it often runs only once per hour, with 30 min intervals only occurring during rush hour. For timetable see: http://www.autobus.qc.ca/anglais/horaire_an.htmlIt takes 30 min to downtown outside of rush hour, 50min to an hour during most of the day. I arrived at 8am and had to be at a meeting by 9, so taxi was the only option. There is a public transport, but it takes about 75 minutes to get downtown and at the info booth they will switch you to an automatic route description, which lists the place names in French and is absolutely useless to English speaking people, since even the bus numbers are incoherent. It is only a recording, so any chance of clearing the confusion is out of question. That was quite a futile attempt.In any case, getting off the airport is expensive, unless you have time and a public transport route cleared up ahead of time.If you have the time to take the shuttle, it will take you to the Bus station at 505 De Maisonneuve Boulevard, but you can supposedly get off more centrally, such as at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel.Going back, I was leaving from the Train Station, which is very conveniently centrally located, great place to start your exploration of the city and/or the university. There is a great food court with dozens of little restaurants and bakeries. The trains were a disappointment though, they were about 25-30 years old, and the seats did not look very clean. I expected seats facing each other with tables, but they were in regular rows, with not much space for legs in between, more crowded and far less comfortable than the GO Train. Not at all like the VIA Rail TV commercials. The staff looked more like mechanics than attendants. There is very little available as to food, just snacks, at a cost, and no way to get off throughout the six hours. Based on the state of the kitchenette, I wasn't inclined to eat anything anyway. The washrooms were as could be expected. Unfortunately, you will need to use one since the trip is 6 hours. The seats very soon became rock hard. Perhaps bring a pillow. I had some reservations about putting my head on the head rest, because they also looked quite dingy. There is, however, a free internet, I gather, as long as it works. It stopped working about half way through the trip, based on the announcement.Not a great experience at all, not one that I would recommend, or one that I will ever repeat, especially given that you can fly in for as low as $52 plus about $20 in taxes. The VIA was more expensive than that and I cannot think of a good reason to subject oneself to that experience. It arrives at Union and from there, it is easy to take the TTC or a GO Train home, which by the way is a luxurious experience compared to VIA.
Helpful?
Thank gabrielan882
Report
Ask gabrielan882 about Montreal
This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC.
JB1993
Vermont
“Easy To Fall In Love With Montreal”
Reviewed September 26, 2008
Lovely, lovely city. Of course the architecture and history of the city are beautiful. There are many lovely old buildings that one just does not find in the U.S. What really surprised me was how incredibly peaceful the city is! Amazingly so. We were there for 4 days at the end of September. We walked alot. On many occassions I was astonished at how quiet and peaceful it felt there. Once in the taxi I mentioned it to the driver and he said "oh yes, here in Montreal we do not rush. We enjoy life." Needless to stay the residents are very pleasant and super bilingual. A certain portion of the population speaks English all the time, maybe about 30%. The rest speak French. Anyone who deals with the public speaks English just as easily as they speak French.There is much to do and see in Montreal. A very long list to choose from. Top highlights are the Basilicas, especially the Notre Dame., Museums, Shopping, and Dining. We also took in the IMAX movie at the Sceince Center and visited the Planetarium. There is Litte Italy and Chinatown too. Consider also bicycling. It is real part of life there. For a parking space on the streets, there are also posts to chain a bike too. Renting a bike is easy and a fun way to see the city. The night lights tour to very nice.Anyone who lives within a days drive should try to spend time in this city. It is worth the effort. We look forward to returning.
Helpful?
1
Thank JB1993
Report
Ask JB1993 about Montreal
This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC.
«
1
...
14
15
16
...
32
»
70-74 of 158 reviews
Been to Montreal? Share your experiences!
Write a Review
Add Photos & Videos
Recently Reviewed Hotels around Montreal
Montreal Marriott Chateau Champlain
4.1 out of 5,
2,542 reviews
Last reviewed Mar 24, 2025
#35 of 182 hotels in Montreal, Quebec
Notre Dame Le Petit Hotel
5 out of 5,
7 reviews
Last reviewed Mar 21, 2025
#24 of 148 B&Bs / inns in Montreal
Honeyrose Hotel Montreal A Tribute Portfolio Hotel
4.6 out of 5,
77 reviews
Last reviewed Mar 11, 2025
#60 of 182 hotels in Montreal, Quebec
© 2025 Tripadvisor LLC All rights reserved.Terms of UsePrivacy and Cookies StatementCookie consentSite MapHow the site worksContact usThis is the version of our website addressed to speakers of English in the United States. If you are a resident of another country or region, please select the appropriate version of Tripadvisor for your country or region in the drop-down menu. Show more$ USDUnited States