U.S. Rep. Geoff Davis To Obama: That Boy's Finger Does Not Need To Be On The Button | Crooks and Liars
Support C&L — Go Ad-Free Today
Ad Free Login
CLTV
Follow us on Bluesky
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Mastodon
Follow us on Flipboard
CLTV
Follow us on Bluesky
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Mastodon
Follow us on Flipboard
My Ad Free Account
Support C&L
Go Ad-Free Today
Subscriber Login
Latest
Donald Names Failed Attorney Alina Habba As US Attorney For NJ
Fox Legal Contributor Reminds Host: 'Because It's The Law'
Fox News: Voters Will Be Happy To Suffer Pain Musk Inflicts
U.S. Rep. Geoff Davis To Obama: That Boy's Finger Does Not Need To Be On The Button
Dog Whistle Politics:
U.S. Rep. Geoff Davis, a Hebron Republican, compared Obama and his message for change similar to a "snake oil salesman" [at a N
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
By John Amato
— April 13, 2008
Dog Whistle Politics:
U.S. Rep. Geoff Davis, a Hebron Republican, compared Obama and his message for change similar to a "snake oil salesman" [at a Northern Kentucky Lincoln Day dinner].
He said in his remarks at the GOP dinner that he also recently participated in a "highly classified, national security simulation" with Obama.
"I'm going to tell you something: That boy's finger does not need to be on the button," Davis said. "He could not make a decision in that simulation that related to a nuclear threat to this country."
UPDATE: Davis apologizes
That makes it all A-OK, I guess. I expect Obama to receive a ton of these apology letters as the days go by from the good old Republican Party.
Topics: Barack Obama, Campaigns/Elections, racism, Racism/Bigotry, The Senate, White House
Can you help us out?
For over 20 years we have been exposing Washington lies and untangling media deceit, but social media is limiting our ability to attract new readers. Please give a one-time or recurring donation, or buy a year's subscription for an ad-free experience. Thank you.
Become a subscriber:
To become an ad-free subscriber please select one of the following two options. Once you click your selected plan a window will open taking you to Admiral, our ad-free partner.MonthlyEnjoy ad-free browsing while paying as you go.Just $1 for the first month$6.99/month thereafterSelect PlanYearlyEnjoy a full year of ad-free browsing.$75.00/yearSelect Plan**Does not apply to Comments, YouTube or any other embedded service ads. View our Ad-Free FAQ for more information.
Make a donation:
If you don't mind the ads and would rather donate, please select one of the options below:
Kindest
Donate via PayPal
Via Snail Mail
payable to: Crooksandliars
528 Palisades Drive
Ste 548
Pacific Palisades, CA 90272
Explore more
Fox Fans Lose Their Minds Over Mississippi School Renamed For Obama
Steve M.
—
Oct 20th, 2017
Letter To Grandmother: 'This Neighborhood Does Not Need Any Blacks In It'
Frances Langum
—
Aug 25th, 2016
Fox And Friends Orders Trump To Clarify 'Shithole' Comments, So He Does
John Amato
—
Jan 12th, 2018
Discussion
We welcome relevant, respectful comments. Any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. Please refer to our Terms of Service for information on our posting policy.
Please enable JavaScript to view the
comments powered by Disqus.
What's Hot
'Yell Some More': Newsmax Pundit Goes Berserk Over Tesla Stock Losses
David Edwards
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Tulsi Gabbard's Head Did Exorcist-Spin Over DoD Signal Leak
John Amato
—
Mar 25th, 2025
No One's Mentioning All The Federal Laws They Just Broke
Susie Madrak
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Happening now
Trump's CIA Director Didn't Know Witkoff Was In Russia During Leaked Group Chat
John Amato
—
Mar 25th, 2025
Latest from Blue America
Virginia Endorsement Alert: Jessica Anderson
Endorsement: Saikat Chakrabarti For Congress
Dems Need Consensus— A Good Place To Start Would Be FDR... And Josh Weil
Help Make America Blue
Daily Newsletter
Our daily top picks right to your inbox
Email
Name
Sign Up!
© 2025 Crooks and Liars
Team
About Us
Contact
Terms of Service
Privacy
DMCA
Corrections
Mastodon