Answers - The Most Trusted Place for Answering Life's Questions
Subjects
Animals & Plants
Arts & Entertainment
Auto
Beauty & Health
Books and Literature
Business
Electronics
Engineering & Technology
Food & Drink
History
Hobbies
Jobs & Education
Law & Government
Math
People & Society
Science
Social Studies
Sports
Travel & Places
Create0Log in
AnswerGeorge Van Eps was an influential American jazz guitarist and composer known for his unique style and contributions to the music world. He developed a distinctive way of playing guitar that combined elements of jazz and classical music. Van Eps is also recognized for his work in developing the seven-string guitar, which added depth to his sound. His innovative techniques and compositions continue to inspire musicians today.This instant answer was created using AI technology. Learn more about AnswerBot
Search results
Trending Questions
Why are the groups alkaline earth metals halogens called so?
What is the value and age of an Ithaca 16 gauge shotgun serial number 56304 28inch side by side barrels double in line triggers black oak stock and forarm extractor not sure of grade?
Why was the victory of sargatoga important to America?
Does Psych film in Santa Barba?
The appropriate minimum interval between your vehicle and the one you are following?
Where was Under the Tuscan Sun filmed?
What instruments make up the string section of the orchestra?
What is brainless organism?
Is it possible to stop time?
What is the past tense of effort?
How many siblings did bobby hull have?
Is the earth the second smallest planet?
What is the link between rhuematiod arthritis and high blood protein?
How much an iPad 1 cost?
What are the two Standards for patch cable pin configuration?
What is a 12 letter adjective that starts with a?
What Does Jo NO Se Mean?
What hormone is secreted by gastric mucosa?
Why is my metal coffee filter clogged and how can I unclog it effectively?
Where can you download a manual for a 1985 kawasaki voyager?
Still have questions?
Find more answers
Resources
Leaderboard
All Tags
Unanswered
Top Categories
Algebra
Chemistry
Biology
World History
English Language Arts
Psychology
Computer Science
Economics
Product
Community Guidelines
Honor Code
Flashcard Maker
Study Guides
Math Solver
FAQ
Company
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Cookie Policy
IP Issues
Copyright ©2025 Infospace Holdings LLC, A System1 Company. All Rights Reserved. The material on this site can not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with prior written permission of Answers.