Between Light and Shadow:  Portraits by Stuart Campbell, National Portrait Gallery
Skip to main content
What's on
The Portraits
Visit
The Gallery
Learn
Watch
Members
More
O
What's on
Plan your Visit
Full calendar
Exhibitions
Touring exhibitions
Prizes
National Photographic Portrait Prize
Darling Portrait Prize
The Portraits
Highlights
Currently on display
Watch
Portrait stories
On demand
The Gallery
About us
Support the Gallery
Venue hire
Publications
Research library
Organisation chart
Contact us
Governance & Board
Vision and purpose
Annual report
Circle of Friends
Become a member
Renew membership
Learn
Make a booking
Onsite programs
Online programs
School visit information
Learning resources
Little Darlings
Access
Audio description
Disability Inclusion Access Plan
Search the website
close
close
What's on
The Portraits
The Gallery
Learn
Watch
More
O
The National Portrait Gallery acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of Country throughout Australia and recognises the continuing connection to lands, waters and communities. We pay our respect to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures and to Elders both past and present.
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander viewers are warned that this website contains images of deceased persons.
Between Light and Shadow
Portraits by Stuart Campbell
Previous exhibition from Saturday 30 April  until Sunday 17 July 2011
The late Australian photographer Stuart Campbell produced superb photographs of Australian actors of stage and screen.
Anne Lambert, actor by Stuart Campbell
This exhibition, drawn from his estate, includes portraits of a very young Bruce Spence, Wendy Hughes and others that recall the halcyon days of the Australian film industry of the 1970s and 1980s. Stuart Campbell’s portraits record the actors, directors and writers of the cinema renaissance of the 1980s known as the Australian New Wave.
Stuart Campbell (1951–2009), born in Ballarat Victoria, studied at Swinburne Technical College in Melbourne where his love affair with photography began. In 1972 he moved to Sydney and studied at the National Institute of Dramatic Art. After graduation Campbell played on stage with major theatre companies and appeared in a number of films including Caddie (1976) and Starstruck (1982), and on television in Cop Shop and Patrol Boat among others.
Campbell had modest success as an actor, but excelled as a photographer. In the early 1980s he began taking sensitive portfolio portraits for his friends. These included actors such as Mel Gibson, Colin Friels and Judy Davis, and filmmakers Gillian Armstrong and Peter Weir. Campbell stayed faithful to the sensuous darks and lights of black and white film, valuing the richness and honesty of the medium. Other photographic projects included taking the notorious male centrefolds for Cleo and celebrity portraits for Vogue.
"Stuart Campbell’s gifts as a photographer were many but what made him unique was his ability to disarm his subjects with outlandish wit, shocking them out of their self-consciousness so that they revealed more of themselves than they had ever intended" - author and friend, Lee Tulloch.
40 portraits  view all
Mel Gibson, actor, by Stuart Campbell.
Related people
Stuart Campbell
Related information
The essence of you
Magazine article by Lee Tulloch, 2011
Lee Tulloch remembers her great friend NIDA-trained actor turned photographer Stuart Campbell.
David M Thomas
Dream Job					Previous exhibition, 2011
Since 1993 Brisbane-based artist David M Thomas has investigated self identity through art works that encompass painting, text, audio, video and performance.
Impressions
Painting light and life					Previous exhibition, 2011										Impressions: Painting light and life presents portraits by, and of, artists at the heart of Australian impressionism including Tom Roberts, Arthur Streeton and Frederick McCubbin.
Home
Contact
Media
Privacy statement
User agreement
Social media and community guidelines
© National Portrait Gallery 2025
King Edward Terrace, Parkes
Canberra, ACT 2600, Australia
Phone +61 2 6102 7000
ABN: 54 74 277 1196
The National Portrait Gallery acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of Country throughout Australia and recognises the continuing connection to lands, waters and communities. We pay our respect to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures and to Elders past and present. We respectfully advise that this site includes works by, images of, names of, voices of and references to deceased people.
This website comprises and contains copyrighted materials and works. Copyright in all materials and/or works comprising or contained within this website remains with the National Portrait Gallery and other copyright owners as specified.
The National Portrait Gallery respects the artistic and intellectual property rights of others. The use of images of works of art reproduced on this website and all other content may be restricted under the Australian Copyright Act 1968 (Cth). Requests for a reproduction of a work of art or other content can be made through a Reproduction request. For further information please contact NPG Copyright.
The National Portrait Gallery is an Australian Government Agency