Home - Another Year Movie
HomeAnother Year
AboutBehind Story
FanstasyLiving Happily
SecretStaying Married
CommitmentCasual Connections
SettlingMarriage Degrade?
Blog Latest News
ContactStay in touch
Welcome to anotheryear-movie.com!
This is an unofficial website dedicated to the movie another year. This is a movie that explores a very familiar theme. The movie was first released in 2003 and it made quite a bit of an impact in certain circles.
It was not exactly a breakthrough hit. As far as studio distributors are concerned, this is one of those movies that were commercial failures. However, don’t let its commercial aspect fool you.
This movie explores key topics that resonate with people across the board. If you are in any kind of relationship, this movie will make some sense to you.
You see, at some point in time, people get bored of their relationship. Now, this doesn’t necessarily mean they’re bored of the other partner. This doesn’t mean that they want to turn their back on the relationship.
They’re just bored. They feel stuck. They feel that they have in put all this time, effort, energy, and focus on the relationship, but there’s something missing.
Now, it’s easy to look at this as a midlife crisis situation. Another way to look at it is that it’s some sort of sexual issue. Maybe one of the partners is not getting the kind of attention that they’re looking for. This can also be viewed as a fulfillment issue, more particularly a shortfall in fulfillment. Somehow, someway you’re just not happy in the relationship.
Well, what if I told you that it may have more to do with a person’s expectations? You see, your attitude about anything will color how you view that thing and how you behave towards it.It was not exactly a breakthrough hit. As far as studio distributors are concerned, this is one of those movies that were commercial failures. However, don’t let its commercial aspect fool you.
This movie explores key topics that resonate with people across the board. If you are in any kind of relationship, this movie will make some sense to you.
You see, at some point in time, people get bored of their relationship. Now, this doesn’t necessarily mean they’re bored of the other partner. This doesn’t mean that they want to turn their back on the relationship.
They’re just bored. They feel stuck. They feel that they have in put all this time, effort, energy, and focus on the relationship, but there’s something missing.
Now, it’s easy to look at this as a midlife crisis situation. Another way to look at it is that it’s some sort of sexual issue. Maybe one of the partners is not getting the kind of attention that they’re looking for. This can also be viewed as a fulfillment issue, more particularly a shortfall in fulfillment. Somehow, someway you’re just not happy in the relationship.
Well, what if I told you that it may have more to do with a person’s expectations? You see, your attitude about anything will color how you view that thing and how you behave towards it.
You can have a gun pointed at your head, you may be stripped down from head to toe in some sort of cold, forbidding, dark dungeon prison, and you still have power, as far as your thoughts are concerned. You will never lose that power because that’s part of what makes you a human being. As long as you’re able to breathe, you will always have that choice.
This is why given this context and given the depth of that power, people abuse that power. That’s right. They always think the worst things. That’s why they make things worse on themselves.
You have to understand that ultimately, your life is a product of your thoughts. If you think the right thoughts, you will have a better life. If you think the thoughts of somebody who sees hope and opportunity in every passing second, what kind of life do you think you will be living?
Well, it really works this way. When you choose to think about things a certain way, you start behaving a certain way. That’s the bottom line.
When you choose a certain attitude, you process reality a certain way and this leads to you saying certain things. This leads to emotions. It can be positive or negative. It doesn’t really matter. It all boils down on your analysis.
These emotions are not neutral. They don’t just hang there. You don’t just feel it and you move on with the rest of your life. Your emotions actually dictate the quality of your actions. Ultimately, they dictate the direction you take.
This is the point where the world sits up and pays attention. You see, the world couldn’t care less about your feeling. Everybody’s got feelings. Everybody’s got opinions. However, the world cannot deny the decisions you make.
That’s the point in time where you actually make changes to your world. Those changes have consequences. Guess what triggers this? How do you think this whole chain reaction starts? That’s right. It starts with a thought.
You can choose your thoughts. At the end of the day, the tangible things that you perceive from the world are neutral. It is your thoughts that give them meaning, body, and consequences.
Change those thoughts and you change your emotional state, which changes your course of action. Your life is a product of your emotional habits. It’s a product of your psychological state. If you change these things by simply choosing one set over the other, you change your life.
It doesn’t really matter how stuck you feel in your relationship. It doesn’t really matter how small and voiceless you feel in your interaction with that person that is supposed to be the most important person in your life.
You only need to change your expectations and assumptions regarding your relationship and the relationship will become better. It all boils down to a choice.
Unfortunately, so many people are in such a hurry to run away from this choice. They’d rather point their finger at their partner and blame that person for whatever is going wrong in their lives.
In fact, these are the type of people who would do the same to their parents. Regardless of whatever they’re struggling with, please understand that it all boils down to their choices.
The moment you star full ownership and responsibility for your choices is the moment you will get out from under whatever it is that is holding you back. It doesn’t matter whether it involves your finances, your sexual fulfillment, your relationship with others, or your happiness generally speaking.
You have control. Isn’t it high time that you reassert ownership over your life by taking control? This all leads back to the kind of interpretations you give yourself.
Blog Posts
We’re on Facebook
ANOTHER YEAR
Ways in Choosing the Best E-Juice for a Great Vaping Experience
June 14, 2021June 11, 2021
Great vaping experience depends on how you choose your e-juice.
Many people are starting to enjoy vaping than smoking because of the e-juices being used. Unlike the traditional nicotine wrapped in every stick of cigarette that produces a pungent smell that sticks to whatever it touches, e-juices are inviting and sweet smelling that one can be confused to the smell of a perfume.
The sweet and fruity smell of e-juices, when smoked, is one of the reasons why a lot of people are starting to switch from their regular cigarette to vape. However, to have a great vaping experience, you have to be smart with your e-juice choices.
If you are looking for a legit online vape shop try eliquid-depot.com
Choose the right PG/VG ratio of your e-juice.
You are probably wondering what is ‘PG/VG ratio’ upon looking the labels of the e-juice in a vape shop or when you browse the internet. PG stands for Propylene Glycol while VG stands for Vegetable Glycerin. The ratio of the PG and VG depends on the vaping device you are using. If you want an e-juice that allows you to produce a strong and intense flavor when you smoke, choose a PG ratio that is higher than VG. If you are into making vape tricks and wants to puff thick, fluffy vapor, the kind of e-juice you have to choose is the one that has higher VG than PG. But if you want to just enjoy the flavor and the smoke, you can opt for a 50/50 blend.
Check the nicotine level of your e-juice: Is it right? Or just too much?
E-juice also contains nicotine, but not as much as what regular cigarette has. When you check the labels of the e-juices, you will realize that there are varying levels of nicotine strengths. If you just want to have a healthy smoke, you can opt for an e-juice with a reduced level of nicotine.
What makes vaping better than smoking is that you can adjust the level of nicotine in what you smoke, unlike in cigarette that every packet regardless of brand contains the same level of nicotine. And if you want to reduce the nicotine levels you smoke, the best thing that you can do is to just quit smoking.
Choosing the E-Juice flavor: Should I go for a blend or single flavor vape juice?
Aside from nicotine levels and the ratio of PG and VG in vape juice, another detail you have to be aware of in choosing the best e-juice for your vaping experience is the flavor of the vape juice.
There are two variants of vape juice: blend and a single flavor.
Vaping juice that has blended flavor consists of several distinct flavors that were mixed together. A good example is SMURF that is a strawberry-blueberry-smoothie inspired vape juice and KRISPY, that is sweet glazed donut inspired vape juice.
On the other hand, single flavored vape juice only consist of one distinct flavor and this often comes in fruity flavors like pineapple, strawberry, coconut or cream flavors.
© 2018 Another Year Movie. All Rights Reserved.