Tesla Arena, Prague, Czech Republic – Simply Red
Simply Red
Archive
Tour
Shop
Archive
Tour
Shop
Tesla Arena, Prague, Czech Republic
SIMPLY RED
SET LIST
Prague 14th November 2010
1. Out On The Range
2. Thrill Me
3. Your Mirror
4. To Be With You
5. Night Nurse
6. So Not Over You
7. For Your Babies
8. Holding Back The Years
9. It’s Only Love
10. Sunrise
11. Fake
12. Come To My Aid
13. The Right Thing
14. Money’s Too Tight (To Mention)
15. Ain’t That A Lot Of Love
16. Fairground
17. Stars
18. Something Got Me Started
19. If You Don’t Know Me By Now
Follow Simply Red
Stay In Touch
SIGN UP FOR THE MAILING LIST
© 2023 Simply Red. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions  |  Privacy Policy
Website by Another Kind Studio & WELLMADE
This site and all the material contained therein © copyright simplyred.com ltd. simplyred.com ltd (reg no 4260793) is incorporated in England & Wales and is registered c/o OJK Limited 3rd Floor Colwyn Chambers, York Street, Manchester, M2 3BA. Vat Reg No 785 4256 94
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPTPrivacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Read our Privacy Policy here
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
SAVE & ACCEPT