Dorel Industries Inc: Recent Decline Presents Significant Discou
🚀 Enjoy a 7-Day Free Trial Thru Apr 02, 2025! ✨  Sign Up Login
Free Sign-up
Login
7-Day Free Trial
Home
Homepage
Membership Levels
About Us
General Discussion
Complete Stock List
The book
Membership Data Coverage
Founder's Message
10-Year Letter
20-Year Letter
Free Trial
Referral Program
Partner Program
GuruFocus Podcast
Screeners
GuruFocus Screeners
All-In-One Screener
Strategies Created by Users
Ben Graham Lost Formula
Canadian Faster Growers
CEO Buys
CEO Buys after Price Drop > 20%
Dividend Kings 2025
Dividend Aristocrats 2025
Dividend Growth Portfolio
Dividend Income Portfolio
Fast Growers
Good Companies
Hedge Fund Guru Top 10 Aggregated
High Quality
High Quality Low Capex w ROE ROC min
High Quality & Low Capex
High Yield Insider Buys
Historical High Dividend Yields
International Gurus' Top Holdings
James Montier Short Screen
Margin Decliners
Mega Caps
Peter Lynch & Warren Buffett
Peter Lynch Growth w Lower Valuation
Peter Lynch S&L Traded Below Book
PFCF Screener
Piotroski Score Screener
Predictable Growth Companies
Profitable predictable margin expanders
Stocks Sold w less Cash
The Stalwarts
My Screeners
Create My Screener
Value Screens
Stock Ideas
All-In-One Screener
S&P 500 Map
S&P 500 Bubble
S&P 500 Aggregate
Buffett-Munger Screener
Industry Overview
Undervalued Predictable
Benjamin Graham Net-Net
52-week/3Y/5Y Lows
52-week/3Y/5Y Highs
Magic Formula(Greenblatt)
Dividend Stocks
Peter Lynch Screen
S&P500 Grid
Predictable Companies
Spin Off List
Merger and Acquisition List
Historical Low P/B List
Historical Low P/S List
High Short Interest
Upcoming Special Dividends
Delisted Stocks
Model Portfolios
Performances Overview
Most Broadly Held Portfolio
Most Weighted Portfolio
Buffett-Munger Top 25
GF Score <= 100 Top 25
Top 25 Undervalued Predictable
Top 25 52-week Low Predictable
Top 25 Historical Low P/S
Stock Comparison
Airline Stocks
Artificial Intelligence Stocks
Bank Stocks
Biotech Stocks
Blockchain Stocks
Chinese Stocks
Dividend Stocks
EV Stocks
Growth Stocks
Oil Stocks
Value Stocks
Virtual Reality Stocks
Compare More Stocks…
Gurus
Guru Trades
Latest Guru Picks
Real Time Picks
Guru Portfolio
Score Board
Mutual Funds
Top 10 Holdings
Sector Picks
International Picks
Aggregated Portfolio
Consensus Picks
Guru Bargains
Hot Picks
Download Guru Portfolios
Industry Trends
Geographic Trend
ETFs
Options Holdings
European Shorting
Guru Lists
Complete Guru List
Warren Buffett
Bill Gates
Mohnish Pabrai
Carl Icahn
George Soros
David Tepper
Seth Klarman
Bill Ackman
Joel Greenblatt
Charlie Munger
Michael Price
Julian Robertson
Chuck Akre
David Einhorn
Tom Gayner
My Guru Lists
Insiders
Insider Trading Tracker
Real-Time Insider Picks
CEO Buys/Sells
CFO Buys/Sells
Insider Trends
Insider Cluster
Guru + Insider Double Buys
Triple Buys/Sells
Canadian Insider
Chinese Insider
German Insider
Complete Insider List
Politician Trading Tracker
Real-Time Politician Picks
Complete Politician List
Nancy Pelosi
Mitch Mcconnell
Tommy Tuberville
Josh Gottheimer
Kevin Hern
Thomas R. Carper
Susie Lee
Lois Frankel
Market
US Market Valuation
Buffett Indicator
U.S. Treasury Yield Curve
U.S. Inflation Rate
Presidential Cycle and Stock Market
Shiller P/E
Shiller P/E by Sectors
GF Value for S&P 500 Index
GF Value for NASDAQ 100 Index
GF Value for DOW 30 Index
Fed Net Liquidity
Buffett Assets Allocation
Latest IPOs
Global Market Valuation
Major Stock Market Indices Performance
Global Market Overview
USA
China
Japan
India
Canada
UK
France
Germany
Brazil
Australia
More...
Economic Indicators
Economic Indicators Overview
Commitments of Traders Reports
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)
SP 500 Index
Nasdaq Composite Index
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
Shiller PE
Ratio of Wilshire 5000 over GNP
Civilian Unemployment Rate
Russell 2000 Index
CBOE Volatility Index (VIX)
Total Nonfarm Payrolls: All Employees
More...
Sector & Industry Performance
Global Industry Overview
USA
Asia
Europe
Canada
UK/Ireland
Oceania
Latin America
Africa
India/Pakistan
News
News
Editors' Picks
Stock Market News
Q&A with Gurus
Guru Stock Picks
Insider Transaction
Earning Reports
Podcast
Earnings Call Transcripts
Software Stock News
Biotechnology Stock News
Hardware Stock News
Banks Stock News
Metals & Mining Stock News
Drug Manufacturers Stock News
Instant Alerts
Press Release
All News
Submit Articles
Submit Article Online
Contributor Guidelines
Tools
GuruAI
Model Portfolios
All-In-One Screener
Data Batch Download
Guru Portfolio Download
Insider Data Download
Excel Add-In
Google Sheets Add-On
API
Manual of Stocks
DCF Calculator
WACC Calculator
Interactive Chart
Maps
Fund Letters Archive
Stock Comparison Table
Mobile App
Discussion Board
Financial Calendar
Embed Widgets
Stock Market Holidays
Discussion
All Topics
General Discussions
Investment Ideas
Strategies
Article Comments
Books
Feedback
Data
Pricing
Tutorials
Tutorials
Demo Center
Financial Glossary
FAQ
Change Log
Contact Us
Support
Chat Support
Create a ticket
Book Demo
User Engagement Meeting
469-248-6885
Status
Take Survey
Subscribe
Free Trial
Group Subscription
Refer a Friend and Earn One Month of Free Membership
GURUFOCUS.COM
Latest News
Current Article
Dorel Industries Inc: Recent Decline Presents Significant Discount
Frank Voisin    Oct 14, 2011         Dorel Industries Inc (TSX: DII.A and DII.B) is a Canadian company that designs, manufactures and distributes a range of branded products, including juvenile products (e.g., child card seats, strollers), bicycles (and accessories such as helmets) and home furnishings (e.g., futons). I first learned of Dorel from reading Saj Karsan’s articles on the company stretching back as far as 2009. Unfortunately, in 2009 I did not pull the trigger on Dorel and my hesitancy (really, my focus on other companies) caused me to miss out on a gain that ultimately exceeded 100%. Luckily, Mr Market is fickle and DII has suffered a precipitous decline in its share price over recent months, down 32% this year. I thought it was time to take a closer look.Dorel Industries, Inc - Historical Returns, 1997 - 2Q 2011Here we see that the company has generated positive returns for more than a decade, with only minor declines throughout the recession.Dorel Industries, Inc - Revenues and Margins, 1997 - 2Q 2011The company has experienced growing revenues. Part of this is related to acquisitions (which explain the large 2004 and 2008 increases). Though the company’s gross margin has declined over the last two years, it is still very close to its long-run average. However, in the last few quarters, gross margins have contracted further, in part due to unfavourable product mixes, but also as a result of increases in resin costs (one of the company’s key inputs). I was unable to find the exact form of resin the company is using, but ThePlasticsExchange.com helpfully provides information on the pricing of a wide range of resigns on a bi-monthly basis for the last year. By heading over to that site, you’ll see that resin prices have come down dramatically in the last six weeks, which should translate into gross margin expansion in coming quarters.While on the topic of revenues, it is worth noting that one scary aspect of Dorel is that its sales are somewhat concentrated. From its 2010 10-K [PDF]:For the year ended December 30, 2010, one customer accounted for over 10% of the Company’s revenues, at 31.0% of Dorel’s total. In 2009, this customer accounted for 31.4% of revenues. Dorel does not have long-term contracts with its customers, and as such revenues are dependent upon Dorel’s continued ability to deliver attractive products at a reasonable price, combined with high levels of service.This adds a degree of risk, as reliance on a single customer that has no long-term commitment can spell disaster should that customer switch suppliers (a potential problem we’ve noted elsewhere). Dorel Industries Inc - Cash Flows, 1997 - 2Q 2011Here we see that the company has traditionally enjoyed strong free cash flows, with relatively low capital demands (as evidenced by the small spread between FCFs and CFOs). The company’s cash flows from operations fell quite dramatically in both 2008 and 2010. In both cases, this was largely the result of inventory builds. This can sometimes be a cause for concern, so we’ll take a quick look at the company’s Cash Conversion Cycle.Dorel Industries Inc - Cash Conversion Cycle, 1997 - 2Q 2011Here we see that the company’s Days of Inventory have increased fairly consistently since 2004. In the last two quarters, the company has worked to reduce its inventory levels, and the company appears committed to continuing this in the future. From the company’s recent quarterly earnings conference call:As has been stated in the past, the company estimates the appropriate level of inventory to support the business to be 450 to 470 million, and this remains the expectation for the second half of the year.The company currently has $504 million of inventory, so a reduction of $30 – $50 million will flow through to free cash flow in the coming quarters, which will go a long way toward moving back to levels of historical free cash flows. Of interest is the fact that the company self-insures against product liability exposure. This is an important area to focus on, as incorrect assumptions can create large unrecognized liabilities. At the end of 2010, the company had reserved approximately $24 million under Accrued Liabilities. Unfortunately, the company does not break out actual claims, so there is no way to tell how accurate its estimates have been over time. It is shocking that the Canadian securities regulators allow companies to not provide details on major reserve accounts that are formed largely on managerial assumptions.Dorel Industries, Inc - Capital Structure, 1997 - 2Q 2011Here we see the scariest part of Dorel. Its debt levels are far higher than I would prefer. Mitigating the increased risk of this debt level is that fact that the company’s free cash flows far exceed its interest payments, and the bulk of its debt comes due not until 2013, leaving plenty of time to find alternative funding sources or repay the balance owing. Unfortunately, there is no indication that the company is interested in paying down this debt as they have not made meaningful progress in nearly two years.While on the topic of capital structure, it is worth noting that the company has two share classes, A and B. Class A shares carry ten votes each, and given the relative proportion of each Class, represent nearly 60% of total votes eligible to be made across all voting securities. The Schwartz family owns a fairly significant chunk of the Class A shares, which gives them disproportionate control, leading to the potential for corporate governance problems.Ok, on to the valuation. Dorel appears significantly undervalued in all of my scenarios. Though there are some risks which I have noted, but I do not believe they justify the current discount. I see a lot of value in Dorel, especially as the company frees up inventory and margins improve due to declining resin costs.What do you think of Dorel?Author Disclosure: None, but may purchase within 72 hours.
Research Tools
All-In-One Screener
Stock Ideas
Stock List
Guru List
Guru Real-Time Picks
Insider List
Insider Trades
Economic Indicators
Sector & Industry Performance
DCF Calculator
Discussion Board
Product
Pricing Plans
Excel Add-In
Google Sheets Add-on
Data API
Stock Comparison Table
Manual of Stocks
Instant Alerts
Mobile App
中文
Education
Financial Glossary
Tutorials
FAQ
Schedule Free Session
Buffett Indicator
Shiller P/E
Yield Curve Today
U.S. Inflation Rate
Global Market Valuation
Fed Net Liquidity
Buffett Assets Allocation
Company
About GuruFocus
Career
Contact Us
Advertise
Site Map
Term of Use
Privacy Policy
Referral Program
Partner Program
Survey
We'd love to learn more about your experiences on GuruFocus.com and how we can improve!
Take Survey
Follow Us
Disclaimers
GuruFocus.com is not operated by a broker or a dealer. Under no circumstances does any information posted on GuruFocus.com represent a recommendation to buy or sell a security. The information on this site, and in its related newsletters, is not intended to be, nor does it constitute investment advice or recommendations. The individuals or entities selected as "gurus" may buy and sell securities before and after any particular article and report and information herein is published, with respect to the securities discussed in any article and report posted herein. Gurus may be added or dropped from the GuruFocus site at any time. In no event shall GuruFocus.com be liable to any member, guest or third party for any damages of any kind arising out of the use of any content or other material published or available on GuruFocus.com, or relating to the use of, or inability to use, GuruFocus.com or any content, including, without limitation, any investment losses, lost profits, lost opportunity, special, incidental, indirect, consequential or punitive damages. Past performance is a poor indicator of future performance. The information on this site, and in its related newsletters, is not intended to be, nor does it constitute investment advice or recommendations. The information on this site is in no way guaranteed for completeness, accuracy or in any other way. The gurus listed in this website are not affiliated with GuruFocus.com, LLC. Stock quotes are provided by QuoteMedia, Inc. (CSI). Company fundamental data is provided by Morningstar. Analyst estimates data is sourced from both Refinitiv and Morningstar, with priority given to Refinitiv data. Data is updated daily.
© 2004-2025 GuruFocus.com, LLC. All Rights Reserved.