Lemieux destroys Camacho in one - Bad Left Hook
Skip to main content
clock
menu
more-arrow
no
yes
mobile
Bad Left Hook homepage
Horizontal - White
Bad Left Hook
Global Boxing News and Commentary
Follow Bad Left Hook online:
Follow Bad Left Hook on Twitter
Follow Bad Left Hook on Facebook
Log in or sign up
Log In
Sign Up
Site search
Search
Search
Bad Left Hook main menu
Rankings
Schedule
Betting
Podcast
Team
Community Guidelines
More
All 300 communities on
Horizontal - White
Rankings
By Division
Current World Champions
Schedule
This Week’s Fights
All Upcoming Fights
Betting
Online Sports Betting
Boxing Odds
Podcast
Team
Community Guidelines
✕
Filed under:
Boxing Results and Post-Fight Analysis
Lemieux destroys Camacho in one
By
Brickhaus
Oct 29, 2010, 10:57pm EDT
Share this story
Share this on Facebook
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Reddit
Share
All sharing options
Share
All sharing options for:
Lemieux destroys Camacho in one
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Email
In Montreal, Canada, David Lemieux continued to justify why he's one of the most hyped prospect around. He took less than three minutes to finish off Hector Camacho Jr. Lemieux improves to 24-0 with 23 knockouts, 9 of them coming in the first round. Camacho, on the other hand, falls to 52-4-1 with his first loss in several years, albeit against mediocre competition.
Lemieux started out slow for about a minute, feeling out the southpaw.  Camacho wasn't able to mount much offense, but kept Lemieux off of him with some upper body movement and feinting.  After about a minute, Lemieux nailed Camacho with a straight right that jellified Camacho's legs, and he never quite recovered. As the round went on, Lemieux got more aggressive. With seconds left to go in the round, Lemieux caught his prey against the ropes, unleashed another straight right hand, and knocked Camacho out with an instant knockout of the year candidate. Camacho looked to fall down almost in slow motion, but it was just the ropes holding him up - he was out as soon as the punch hit him. After getting up a good two or three minutes later, Camacho didn't even realize what had happened.
During the broadcast, they said that Lemieux is looking for a title shot in mid-to-late 2011.  Before getting there, Lemieux's team needs to find an opponent who is pretty good but who also can stand up to Lemieux's power. Elvin Ayala, who lasted 12 rounds with Arthur Abraham, couldn't. Camacho, who had never been knocked out before other than a referee stoppage, couldn't. We'll have to see what comes next. He's ranked in the top 3 by two sanctioning bodies already, and would be a welcome addition to the WBA's merry-go-round featuring fellow up and comers Gennady Golovkin and Hassan N'Dam N'Jikam.
In other early results:
Dmitry Sukhotsky scored a sixth round TKO over Aleksy Kuziemsky.  Kuziemsky was reportedly outboxing Sukhotsky pretty handily early, knocking him down in the first. As the fight went on, Sukhotsky did what he tried to do (and almost succeeded with) against Juergen Braehmer, going for broke and trying to overwhelm Kuziemsky. Unlike against Braehmer, he succeeded, and got the referee to stop the fight in a somewhat questionable stoppage. On the same card, Gennady Martirosyan won, and undefeated light welterweights Brunet Zamora and Denis Shafikov fought to a draw.
On the Lemieux undercard, Antonin Decarie got a majority decision over Irving Garcia. Despite coming off a loss in an interim title fight, this was probably Decarie's second best opponent, albeit not a great one. The result can't be too encouraging for Canadian fans.
In Thailand, Medgoen Singsurat won the mismatch of the month, knocking out an 0-1 opponent. The last seven opponents of the former titlist and Pacquiao conqueror is 12-4-2.
Also winning tonight: Yuri Barashian, Alexander Kotlobay and Panomroonglek Kaiyarn Hadaogym.
Next Up In
Boxing News Analysis
Matchroom Boxing wins Yafai vs Rodriguez purse bid
‘He wants a big fight to go out on’: Chisora in position to challenge Dubois for IBF title
‘It won’t work again’: Ryan says she won’t fall victim to Mayer’s pre-fight antics
‘Fundora is the next target’: Zayas eyes mandatory title shot
Boxing streaming and TV schedule for March 28 - 29
Wrap-Up: Remembering George Foreman plus Crawford, Jake Paul, more
Most Read
Jake Paul calls out Joshua, says he won’t fight Benavidez: ‘He’s a f—ing monster, bro’
Jake Paul says he knows he can beat Anthony Joshua, but wants no part of David Beanvidez.
‘Fundora is the next target’: Zayas eyes mandatory title shot
Xander Zayas says Sebastian Fundora either has to fight him or vacate his WBO title.
Sign up for the
newsletter
Sign up for the Bad Left Hook Daily Roundup newsletter!
A daily roundup of all your global boxing news from Bad Left Hook
Thanks for signing up!
Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Email (required)
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Subscribe
close
Chorus
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Horizontal - White
Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
SB Nation Masthead
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Vox MediaVox Media
Vox Media logo.
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
© 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved
Sports data © STATS 2018 | SB Nation Combat
Share this story
Twitter
Facebook