A2 Global Electronics + Solutions | Electronic Component Distributor
sales@a2globalelectronics.com
Linkedin YouTube Facebook WeChat
Linkedin YouTube Facebook WeChat
About Us
Management Team
Corporate Profile
Careers
Company History
Industries Served
Solutions
Component Authentication and Value-Added Services
Surplus Inventory Solutions
Shortage Mitigation
Vendor-Managed Inventory
Obsolescence Management
Global Sourcing
PPV Assessment
Quality
Certifications & Memberships
Resources
Videos
Case Studies
Blogs
Press
Franchise Line Card
Contact Us
Global Locations
Submit RFQ
ページを選択
Setting the quality standard in electronic component distribution.
Work with Us
The A2 Global Way
Doesn’t procuring electronic components seem overly complex? You call one distributor for the best price — but there’s a 10-week lead time. Then you reach out to a broker who has the parts, but they’ve driven up the price. We think sourcing electronic components should be easy, fair, and uncomplicated.
We’ve been in the sourcing business for over 40 years. We know you need quality parts quickly at a competitive price. And, that’s exactly what A2 Global does. From last-time buys to full-scale supply chain solutions, consider us your go-to resource for electronic components.
ABOUT A2 GLOBAL
OUR SERVICES + SUPPLY CHAIN SOLUTIONS
Surplus Inventory SolutionsMitigate surplus or obsolete electronic parts with a customized program.
Read more
SHORTAGE MITIGATIONAddress unexpected electronic component shortages caused by extended lead times, changed forecasts, and other supply chain disruptions.
Read more
GLOBAL SOURCINGFind the components you need — at the right price — from our sourcing hubs in the Americas, Asia, Japan, and Europe.
Read more
OBSOLESCENCE MANAGEMENTSource EOL products, facilitate multi-year purchases (MYP), and receive Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) support for the preemptive planning of at-risk components.
Read more
PPV ASSESSMENTLower the cost of components beyond single buys with benchmarking programs, volume buys, and lifecycle analysis.
Read more
Vendor Managed InventorySimplify managing your electronic component inventory through a tailored VMI plan.
Read more
Truly Global
SEE OUR GLOBAL LOCATIONS
SUBMIT AN RFQ
“They went out of their way this year to find us ways to contain costs. They also helped us through stocking more inventory and keeping us supplied.”– Colin Sabby – Materials Manager
“The sales team who recently started business with Lenovo have been outstanding in working with my team in starting this new business relationship with excellent communications. Look forward to continuing to build business with them.” – Global Procurement, Lenovo
“Trustworthy is the first word that comes to mind. During a very difficult allocation period, we were able to trust everything they told us, both good and bad. They established themselves as a reliable supplier that we will continue to call on for a number of needs.” – Doug Edwards, Winegard
“Our sales contact provides great transparency in where you are getting the parts and lets us know upfront if he has any concerns about the source before we decide to take any actions. He has been proactive in investigating ‘outside of the box’ solutions to some of our sourcing needs. – Component Engineering, General Atomics – ASI
“They have been a valued and trusted supplier for many years because of their excellent customer service combined with their impressive screening and testing capabilities."– Sean Canedy, Data Electronic Devices, Inc.
“Our sales contact has been outstanding to work with. She is very professional and has been an asset to KeyTronic EMS. We appreciate all of her assistance!” – Purchasing Lead, KeyTronic EMS
Read our blog
A2 Excellence: Mavis Tan
GET In Touch
Global Headquarters
2600 118th Avenue NorthSt. Petersburg, FL 33716 USATel: +1 800 767 2637
ResourcesMember Services
Careers
Customer Service
Corporate Profile
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Contact Us
A2®, A2 GLOBAL®, and A2 GLOBAL ELECTRONICS + SOLUTIONS® are trademarks of America II Group, LLC.
© 2025 America II Group, LLC. All rights reserved.