About Us - Run Walk Hawkes Bay
About Us
Join Us
Contact Us
Activities and Events
News
✕
About UsHome
Welcome to Run Walk Hawkes Bay
Run Walk Hawkes Bay is a long-standing running and walking club that aims to motivate and assist people to run or walk within their capabilities with the emphasis being on recreational activities.
Although the walking and running we do will always be the main priority, Run Walk Hawke’s Bay considers the aspect of enjoying this activity in a social environment with others as an important second.
The Club was founded in 1979, with the main objective to help people achieve to run a (half) marathon. This has for a few years now moved to the gentler objective to help members reach goals within their capabilities, which may or may not include a (half) marathon.
We cater for both walkers and runners and both groups split up into subgroups on our weekly runs and walks, depending on your capability and ambitions. People of all ages and fitness level are welcome.
The Club has branches based in both Napier and Hastings.
Napier / Hastings branches
Our Club has two branches, one based in Napier and the other based in Hastings. Both have meetings Wednesday evenings and Sunday mornings.
NAPIER BRANCH LOCATION – SUNDAYS AND SUMMERTIME EVENINGS
Our Sunday meeting is at the Napier City Rovers clubrooms in Park Island. We meet there every Sunday from 8:30am.During Daylight Saving, the Napier Branch meets at the Napier City Rovers clubrooms from 6:00pm on Wednesday evenings.
NAPIER BRANCH LOCATION – WINTER EVENINGS
During winter the Branch meets at the Hawke’s Bay Lawn Tennis club in Higgins Street, Marewa, also at 6:00pm.
HASTINGS BRANCH LOCATION
The Hastings branch has a weekly Wednesday meeting at 6:00pm from the Pavilion in the Havelock North Domain and Sunday mornings from the same venue at 8:00am.
Looking for a new challenge? Come and join us! You can just turn up on a Wednesday or Sunday, or ring Stu (Napier branch), Ph: 027 2308717 or Bernie, Ph: 876 9701 (Hastings/Havelock North branch). Further information is available this website or email info@runwalkhb.co.nz
If you are ready to join our club, the cost of membership is only $50 per year per individual or $80 for a couple…
RWHB NEW MEMBERSHIP FORM
©  2025 Run Walk Hawkes Bay