Privately Held Company
Toggle navigation
Encyclopedia
Encyclopedia of Small Business
Encyclopedia of Business
Encyclopedia of American Industries
Encyclopedia of Management
Other
Business Plans
Trademark Encyclopedia
History
Business Biographies
Company Histories
Company Histories Part 2
Leading American Businesses
Forum
Home
Encyclopedia of Business, 2nd ed.
Per-Pro
Privately Held Company
PRIVATELY HELD COMPANY
A company may be publicly owned or privately owned. In the case of a
privately owned, or closely held, company, all of the
stock
is concentrated in the hands of a few individuals. When the privately
held company first issues its stock, it is not offered for sale to the
general public. On the other hand, the stock of a
publicly held company
is offered to the general public for sale. A privately held company may
decide to "go public." That is, it may make a stock offering
to the general public in order to raise capital. The first public stock
offering of a company is known as its initial
public offering
(IPO).
In order for a company to be privately held, it must be organized as a
corporation. A corporation is a legal form of business that is established
by a corporate charter granted by a particular state. The corporate
charter establishes the corporation as a separate legal entity from its
owners. The corporation is said to be a "legal person" and
may enter into agreements, make
contracts,
and sue or be sued.
The owners of a corporation, whether public or private, are its common
stockholders. There are two types of stock, common and preferred.
Preferred stockholders generally receive a stated
dividend
of a specific amount. Common stockholders receive a dividend based on
corporate profits,
although in some cases
common stock
pays no dividend. The corporation's charter specifies how many
shares and what types of stock it is allowed to issue. While both
preferred stockholders and common stockholders are investors in the
corporation and provide it with capital, it is the common stockholders who
actually own the firm.
In a privately held corporation, the owners and managers may be the same
individuals. In the case of a small grocery store organized as a
corporation, for example, it would not be uncommon for the owners of the
store to also run it. The president of a small manufacturing firm that is
privately held may be the sole stockholder or hold a majority of the
stock.
The corporate form of business organization allows a distinction to be
made between a corporation's owners and its managers. In a large,
privately held corporation, the shareholders who own the firm are likely
to be different from the managers, executives, and directors who run the
firm. In that case, the company's
board of directors
would be responsible for running the corporation to maximize profits for
the shareholders. The directors may themselves be the sole shareholders.
In practice the corporate directors establish corporate policy, make major
decisions, and hire managers and others to oversee the daily operations of
the corporation. Shareholders can express their satisfaction or
displeasure with the board of directors of a corporation by voting them in
or out of office.
Whether publicly held or privately held, corporations provide their owners
with a degree of limited liability. The shareholders of a publicly held
corporation may lose their investment in a company, but they have no
personal liability beyond that. The same is also true for privately held
corporations. If an owner of a privately held corporation, however, is
also actively engaged in managing and directing the operations of the
company, then he or she may be held personally liable in a lawsuit against
the firm. The concept of limited liability still applies to some extent in
that situation, so that in the case of multiple owners or shareholders,
one shareholder is not personally liable for the wrongdoings of another
shareholder. A parallel situation exists for publicly held companies,
where a company's directors may be held personally liable for
specific cases of wrongdoing.
Unlike publicly held companies, privately held companies are not required
to make public their profits and other financial results. Of course, they
are also not able to raise capital by selling shares of stock to the
general public. Successful and relatively young privately held companies
often attempt to facilitate their growth by becoming publicly held
companies and making an IPO. It must be remembered, however, that not all
privately held corporations are small; there are some very large
corporations that remain privately held, such as Levi Strauss & Co.
and Hallmark Cards, Inc.
SEE ALSO
:
Closely Held Corporations
;
Going Public
;
Preferred Stock
[
David
P.
Bianco
]
FURTHER READING:
Anderson, Hershal, et al.
Financial Accounting and Reporting.
4th ed. Medford, NJ: Malibu Publishing, 1995.
Mann, Richard A.
Business Law and the Regulation of Business.
6th ed. Cincinnati: SouthWestern Publishing, 1998.
Spiro, Herbert T.
Finance for the Nonfinancial Manager.
4th ed. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1996.
Also read article about Privately Held Company from Wikipedia
User Contributions:
Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:
Name:
E-mail:
Show my email publicly
Public Comment: (50-4000 characters)
✍ Send comment
Privately Held Company forum
Prisoner's Dilemma
Privately Placed Securities
Copyright 2006 The Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.  •  Terms & Privacy  •   Website © 2025 Advameg, Inc.