Mordecai Richler | Jewish-Canadian, Montreal, Satire | Britannica
Search Britannica
Click here to search
Search Britannica
Click here to search
SUBSCRIBE
SUBSCRIBE
Login
https://premium.britannica.com/premium-membership/?utm_source=premium&utm_medium=nav-login-box&utm_campaign=evergreen
SUBSCRIBE
Home
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Games & Quizzes
Videos
On This Day
One Good Fact
Dictionary
New Articles
History & Society
Lifestyles & Social Issues
Philosophy & Religion
Politics, Law & Government
World History
Science & Tech
Health & Medicine
Science
Technology
Biographies
Browse Biographies
Animals & Nature
Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
Environment
Fossils & Geologic Time
Mammals
Plants
Geography & Travel
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
Entertainment & Pop Culture
Literature
Sports & Recreation
Visual Arts
Companions
Demystified
Image Galleries
Lists
Podcasts
Spotlight
Summaries
Top Questions
#WTFact
Britannica Kids
Ask the Chatbot
Games & Quizzes
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Videos
Mordecai Richler
Table of Contents
Introduction
Quotes
References & Edit History
Quick Facts & Related Topics
Images
Quizzes
Classic Children’s Books Quiz
Related Questions
Do adults read children’s literature?
Read Next
12 Novels Considered the “Greatest Book Ever Written”
Britannica’s Book Bingo
10 Captivating Contemporary Novels Set in the British Isles
9 American Countercultural Books
Discover
The Seven Sacraments of the Roman Catholic church
10 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time
Titanosaurs: 8 of the World's Biggest Dinosaurs
7 Nobel Prize Scandals
7 of History's Most Notorious Serial Killers
The 10 Greatest Basketball Players of All Time
5 of the World’s Most Devastating Financial Crises
Contents
Literature
Novels & Short Stories
Novelists L-Z
Mordecai Richler.
(more)
Mordecai Richler
Canadian novelist
Ask the Chatbot a Question
More Actions
Print
Cite
verifiedCite
While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
Select Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago Manual of Style
Copy Citation
Share
Share
Share to social media
Facebook
X
URL
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mordecai-Richler
Feedback
External Websites
Feedback
Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).
Feedback Type
Select a type (Required)
Factual Correction
Spelling/Grammar Correction
Link Correction
Additional Information
Other
Your Feedback
Submit Feedback
Thank you for your feedback
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
External Websites
Canada's Walk of Fame - Biography of Mordecai Richler
The Canadian Encyclopedia - Biography of Mordecai Richler
Jewish Virtual Library - Biography of Mordecai Richler
Britannica Websites
Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students.
Mordecai Richler - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)
Ask the Chatbot a Question
Written and fact-checked by
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Article History
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Ask the Chatbot
Quick Facts
Born:
Jan. 27, 1931, Montreal, Que., Can.
(Show more)
Died:
July 3, 2001, Montreal (aged  70)
(Show more)
Awards And Honors:
Order of Canada (1999)
(Show more)
Notable Works:
“Barney’s Version”
“Joshua Then and Now”
“Solomon Gursky Was Here”
“St. Urbain’s Horseman”
“The Acrobats”
“The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz”
“The Incomparable Atuk”
(Show more)
See all related content
Mordecai Richler (born Jan. 27, 1931, Montreal, Que., Can.—died July 3, 2001, Montreal) was a prominent Canadian novelist whose incisive and penetrating works explore fundamental human dilemmas and values.
Richler attended Sir George Williams University, Montreal (1950–51), and then lived in Paris (1951–52), where he was influenced and stimulated by Existentialist authors. Returning to Canada (1952), Richler published the novel The Acrobats (1954). Set in Spain, it deals with the experiences of a young Canadian painter with a group of disillusioned expatriates and revolutionaries. Shortly afterward Richler settled in England. He returned to Montreal in the 1970s. His subsequent novels, which manifest evidence of the poverty and anti-Semitism he experienced during his early years, include Son of a Smaller Hero (1955) and A Choice of Enemies (1957), both dealing with angry, confused modern heroes; The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz (1959), a bawdy and sometimes farcical account of a Jewish boy in Montreal and his transformation into a ruthless and amoral businessman, which was made into a film from his screenplay in 1974; and The Incomparable Atuk (1963), which contains amusing descriptions of the powerful men who control the communications industries. Cocksure (1968) is concerned with an American attempt to take over a British publishing house. St. Urbain’s Horseman (1971; television miniseries 2007) concerns a Canadian director’s trial for sodomy and assault in London. Richler’s books, which were noted for their honesty and biting satire, often caused much controversy. Other works include a collection of humorous essays, Notes on an Endangered Species and Others (1974); the Jacob Two-Two series of children’s books (1975, 1987, 1995); and the novels Joshua Then and Now (1980; filmed 1985), Solomon Gursky Was Here (1989), and Barney’s Version (1998; filmed 2010). Richler was awarded the Order of Canada in 1999.
This article was most recently revised and updated by Encyclopaedia Britannica.