Baltimore (MD) Alumni Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.
facebooktwitter
BROTHERS ONLY
Home
The Fraternity
The Fraternity
The Founders
The Provinces
International HQ
The Chapter
About BAC
Officers
Chapter Committees
Benchmark Brothers
Membership Information
News
Events
Guide Right
Photos & Videos
Links
Contact Us
Select PageHomeThe Fraternity    The Fraternity    The Founders    The Provinces    International HQThe Chapter    About BAC    Officers    Chapter Committees    Benchmark Brothers    Membership InformationNewsEventsGuide RightPhotos & VideosLinksContact Us
Polemarch
POLEMARCH’S WELCOME
On behalf of the Officers, Directors and Members of the Baltimore (MD) Alumni Chapter (E) of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Incorporated, I extend salutations and greetings. We thank you for visiting our website. It is an exciting time for the members of our noble klan as we prepare to be the host for the 88th Grand Chapter here in Baltimore.  I am both humbled and honored to be serving as the 53rd Polemarch of this illustrious chapter, and look forward continuing  to fulfill our mission of honorable achievement and service to the community.
We welcome you to explore our website to learn more about our chapter’s history and the programs enriching the lives of the communities we service throughout the Greater Baltimore Metropolitan Area.
Keeping you informed and staying connected are two of our main objectives, so your visit today is important to us. We encourage you to stop back from time to time for news, updates, and upcoming events. If you have questions or need additional information, please contact us. We look forward to hearing from you!
Donald L. Ervin,  Polemarch
COLLEGIATE CHAPTERS
Morgan State University
The Alpha Iota Chapter
Founded: May 29, 1931
Coppin State University
The Zeta Gamma Chapter
Founded: Aug 1, 1970
Johns Hopkins University
The Rho Upsilon Chapter
Founded: October 20, 2019
KAPPA FOUNDATION
The mission of the Kappa Alpha Psi Foundation of Metropolitan Baltimore is to strengthen and support the distressed communities of Metropolitan Baltimore. More…
RECENT NEWS
27
Feb
Walk of AchievementClick Here to Purchase your Brick Click Here to Purchase your Brick
22
Nov
Giving Tuesday- December 1STSpread the word!  December 1st marks the 2020 National Giving Tuesday Campaign.  Consider giving to
© Baltimore (MD) Alumni Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.
Home
Events
Brothers Only
Contact Us
100 Years