Tierney Sutton: American Road album review @ All About Jazz
All About Jazz Essentials
Advertise
Album Reviews
Articles
Born Today
Contest Giveaways
Musicians
News
Radio & Podcasts
Similar Artists
Song of the Day
Videos
+ More...
EXPLORE
SEARCH
GO
Advanced Search
Near You
Sign In
Up
Donate
Home »
Jazz Articles » Album Review » Tierney Sutton: American Road
like
171
Tierney Sutton: American Road
By Dan Bilawsky
September 30, 2011
View read count
While Tierney Sutton's oeuvre is, essentially, a survey of American music in all of its glory, the shades of red, white and blue that pop up on  American Road are far more vivid than any that have appeared in her work before. Sutton and her musical soul mates, who've been with her for nearly two decades, don't turn their backs on what they're known for here, but dig deeper to explore hymns, spirituals, folk songs and patriotic music in inimitable fashion.  While the program includes some numbers that might be considered quaint or antiquated when performed in common fashion, Sutton and company avoid this potential pitfall by sprucing up these songs with new and startling arrangements. A haunting "Wayfaring Stranger" is built atop a polished groove that emphasizes the low end of the sonic spectrum; a positively evil "It Ain't Necessarily So" sounds like it could have been meant for a Fiona Apple album; and alternating bars of 4/4 and 17/16 prove to be a neat little twist on "My Man's Gone Now."  Sutton's longstanding relationship with her band mates creates a level of trust, intimacy and comfort that's so often lacking elsewhere in the music world, and these qualities manifest themselves time and again. Sutton and pianist Christian Jacob take "Tenderly" to places it rarely goes, the singer making a spiritual connection with the bass on "Amazing Grace," as all parties involved seem intent on putting the music before themselves at every turn.  The other key ingredient in this mix is the manner in which the record was produced. While many jazz records are made with a "make it sound like a set in a club" attitude, that's not the case here. Sutton and her band have a keen understanding about the fact that production values can enhance the emotional impact and warmth surrounding a piece of music. If Daniel Lanois ever got into producing jazz records, they might sound like this.  This band has an alternative viewpoint on the possibilities inherent within the body of these songs, putting its own stamp on the music with interpretations that respect the source material without treating it as sacrosanct. With American Road, The Tierney Sutton Band has done for Americana what Cassandra Wilson did for pop music on her now-classic '90s albums.
Track Listing Wayfaring Stranger; Oh Shenandoah/The Water Is Wide; On Broadway; Amazing Grace; It Ain't Necessarily So; Summertime; My Man's Gone Now; Tenderly; The Eagle And Me; Somewhere; Something's Coming/Cool; America The Beautiful.
Personnel
Tierney Sutton
vocals
Tierney Sutton: vocals; Christian Jacob: piano; Kevin Axt: electric bass, acoustic bass; Trey Henry: electric bass, acoustic bass; Ray Brinker: drums, percussion.
Album information
Title: American Road
| Year Released: 2011
| Record Label: BFM Jazz
Tags
Tierney Sutton
CD/LP/Track Review
Dan Bilawsky
Two for the Show Media
BFM
United States
Christian jacob
Daniel Lanois
Cassandra Wilson
American Road
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
About Tierney Sutton
Follow
Instrument: Vocals
Articles |
Concerts |
Albums |
Photos |
Similar
PREVIOUS / NEXT
Gary Burton Quartet: New York, NY, S...	< Previous
Free Jazz		Next >
Support All About Jazz
All About Jazz has been a pillar of jazz since 1995, championing it as an art form and, more importantly, supporting the musicians who make it. Our enduring commitment has made "AAJ" one of the most culturally important websites of its kind, read by hundreds of thousands of fans, musicians and industry figures every month.
Go Ad Free!
To maintain our platform while developing new means to foster jazz discovery and connectivity, we need your help. You can become a sustaining member for as little as $20 and in return, we'll immediately hide those pesky ads plus provide access to future articles for a full year. This winning combination vastly improves your AAJ experience and allow us to vigorously build on the pioneering work we first started in 1995. So enjoy an ad-free AAJ experience and help us remain a positive beacon for jazz by making a donation today.
Showcase
Buy Now
Situation by Alex Coke & Carl Michel Sextet
Featured
Blue World
By Dale Fielder buy
Giveaway
Eligible winners: 3			Days remaining: 23
Win a chance at a recent album release on CAM Jazz
Sign in to enter
sponsored by CAM Jazz
Song of the Day
It's A Blue World
From Blue World
by Dale Fielder
buy
Featured Video
Audrey Powne Live at The JazzLab | Electrifying Jazz, R&B & Groove Performance
with Audrey Powne
Premium
Monika Ryan
vocals
////bc
Weekly newsletter
SIGN ME UP!
Get more of a good thing
Our weekly newsletter highlights our top stories and includes your local jazz events calendar.
More
Blues Sky
Dave Hanson
The Playful Abstract
KALI Trio
C8H10N4O2
Keri Johnsrud / Shawn Maxwell
Altitude 1100 Meters
Satoko Fujii
Popular
Hot
John Lamkin
Dual Citizen
Kasan Belgrave
In Jazz We Trust
Posi-Tone Swingtet
Remembrance
In the Country, Solveig Slettahjell & Knut Reiersrud
Get more of a good thing!
Our weekly newsletter highlights our top stories, our special offers, and upcoming jazz events near you.
SIGN ME UP!
Connect
Welcome
Our
Staff
Join
Us
More Access
Get Apps
Newsletter
Content Plug-Ins
RSS Feeds
For Musicians
Get Reviewed
Primer
Toolkit
Dashboard
Advertise
Advertising
Tips
Rates and Options
Place Order
2025 All About Jazz. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Install All About Jazz
iOS Instructions:
To install this app, follow these steps:
Tap the share button (the square icon with the up arrow) in the tab bar below.
Scroll down and tap Add to Home Screen.
Close
All About Jazz would like to send you
notifications
Notifications include timely alerts to content of interest, such as articles, reviews, new features, and
more. These can be configured in Settings.
Accept
Close
×
Join Our Community or Welcome Back!
Member? Sign in
Join
Email address
Password
Forgot it? Reset it.Click the eye icon to show your password.
Sign in
Membership has its privileges. Learn more.
First Name and Last Name
First Name Only
Email Address
It will remain private
Password
Enter 6+ characters and enter it twice
Free Weekly Newsletter
Timely jazz news & events guide
Verification Check
Submit
Email address
Reset Password Now
×
One moment, you will be redirected shortly.
×
Welcome to All About Jazz!
We sent a confirmation message to . Look for it, then click the link to activate your account. If you don’t see the email in your inbox, check your spam, bulk or promotions folder.
Thanks for joining the All About Jazz community!
×
Explore All About Jazz & Jazz Near You
Home
Jazz Albums
Album Reviews
Articles
Jazz Musicians
Jazz News
Contest Giveaways
Jazz Pictures
Polls
Radio & Podcasts
Song of the Day
Video of the Day
Home
About
Concerts
Livestreams
Venue / Clubs
Directory
Venue Finder
Musician Finder
Teacher Finder
Events By City
Weekly Newsletter
Welcome!
Getting Started
Advertise
Search
Staff
Help Wanted
FAQ
Contact Us
Our weekly newsletter highlights our top stories and includes a local jazz events calendar.
SIGN ME UP!
×
×
Previous
Next
×
Dan Bilawsky
Dan is a jazz journalist, jazz advocate, music educator, and lover of sounds.Senior ContributorSince 2010New York City, NY
Preferred album format:CD/VinylMY ARTICLES | ALBUM REVIEWS | PROFILE PAGE
Total published articles:1,620
Contact Me
Follow Me
Musical Preferences
African JazzBeyond JazzBig BandBluesBrazilian / Bossa Nova / SambaClassical / ChamberDixieland / New Orleans / SwingElectronicaFree Improv / Avant-GardeFringes of JazzFunk / Groove / Acid JazzFusion / Progressive RockHot Jazz / Gypsy JazzJam BandLatin JazzLounge / ExoticaModern JazzSoulStraight-ahead (Bop, Hard bop, Cool)Vocal
×
Notification