Allegheny, Washington, Greene counties. / (Walling, H. F.; Gray, Ormando Willis) / 1872
Allegheny, Washington, Greene counties. (Walling, H. F.; Gray, Ormando Willis), 1872
View larger, zoomable image
(turn off pop-up blocker)
Full Title: Counties of Allegheny, Washington, and Greene.  Atlas of Pennsylvania.  (Published by Stedman, Brown & Lyon, Philadelphia, 1872)
Author: (Walling, H. F.; Gray, Ormando Willis)
Date: 1872
This historical cartographic image is part of the David Rumsey Historical Map Collection,
www.davidrumsey.com, a large collection of online antique, rare, old, and historical maps, atlases, globes, charts, and other cartographic items. Read more about the Collection.
Or you can  view the entire David Rumsey
Map Collection in Insight.
Full David Rumsey Map Collection Catalog Record:
Author: (Walling, H. F.; Gray, Ormando Willis)
Date: 1872
Short Title: Allegheny, Washington, Greene counties.
Publisher: Philadelphia: Stedman, Brown, Lyon
Type: Atlas Map
Object  Height cm: 40
Object  Width cm: 30
Scale 1: 300,000
Note: Hand col. lithographed map.  Shows settlements, towns, railroads, etc.  Prime meridian: Washington, D.C.
State / Province: Pennsylvania
County: Allegheny County (Pa.) ; Washington County (Pa.)
Full Title: Counties of Allegheny, Washington, and Greene.  Atlas of Pennsylvania.  (Published by Stedman, Brown & Lyon, Philadelphia, 1872)
List No: 1155.009
Page No: 47
Series No: 12
Published In: New topographical atlas of the state of Pennsylvania with descriptions historical, scientific and statistical.  Together with a map of the United States and territories.  By Professor Henry F. Walling, Lafayette College, Easton, Pa. and O.W. Gray, Civil & Top'l. Engineer, 10 North Fifth Street, Philadelphia.  Published by Stedman, Brown & Lyon, Philadelphia, 1872.
Publication Author: Walling, H. F.; Gray, Ormando Willis
Publication  Date: 1872
Publication  Reference: Phillips, 2453; Phillips. Maps of America, p. 685; LeGear. Atlases of the United States, L2995.
Publication  Note: See note field above.
Publication  List No: 1155.000
Publication  Type: State Atlas
Publication  Maps: 26
Publication  Height cm: 45
Publication  Width cm: 36
Image No: 1155009
Digital images and descriptive data © 2000 by Cartography Associates.
Images may be reproduced or transmitted, but not for commercial use.
For commercial use or commercial republication, contact
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License.  By downloading any images from this site, you agree to the terms of that license.
Important!
Firewalls, or Browser settings that block Pop-up Ads, may prevent correct operation of Insight Java Client or Insight Browser. Test by turning off the Firewall and/or allowing Pop-ups from this site only - if this corrects the problem, adjust your Firewall or Browser settings.
The Insight®
Browser and Java client software are products of Luna Imaging, Inc.
If you have comments, suggestions, or need help, contact The David
Rumsey Collection at
home | about | view the
collection | recent
additions | news | help
Copyright© 2003 Cartography Associates.  All rights
reserved.