Ram Sampath and Sona float prod house, flooded with jingles | Radioandmusic.com
Skip to main content
Editorial
Gadgets
Photos
Videos
Funzone
Archive
Newsletter
Radio Connex
Subscribe   |   26 Mar 2025
For more on radio and  music business news. | Click on RNMBiz
For more on radio and  music business news. | Click on RNMBiz
editorial
Comments (0)
News |  16 Apr 2010 18:45 |  By harpreetkhokhar
Ram Sampath and Sona float prod house, flooded with jingles
MUMBAI: The musical couple Ram Sampath and Sona Mohapatra has slowly been working their way in the industry and making their presence felt in the dead non-film genre by churning singles at regular intervals.
The couple's last single 'Diljale' sung by Sona and composed by Ram earned a fair amount of air-play by the television channels apart from fairing well at the charts
The couple have also floated their own music production house 'Mint Music' where Sona handles the production department and Ram looks after the creative aspects. Says Sona, "The company is almost a  year old now and has around 3000 commercials to its credit. We have even composed for the international markets. Internet today has changed the dynamics of the industry and we get a lot of work via web."
Out of the several jingles produced by their production house, one of the most popular one is the Tata Docomo jingle. Talking about the brief given for the piece Ram says, "The ad is created by the agency FCB Ulka and I was told after flipping through several options they zeroed down upon me. KS Chakravarthy aka Chax, the national creative director of the agency asked me to make a very active kind of track using the word 'Do'. The jingle was actually pitched against Airtel's epic cinematic verse which is very popular. The idea was to create something that would be catchy and memorable."
The ad uses various voices singing Docomo with instruments playing a role only in the end. Ram himself enounced those different voices. "I did the entire piece in flat half an hour," says Ram proudly
Mostly it is the video that is shot and then everything revolves around it. But for this ad apart from Ram as the composer nothing else was finalised
Adding to the conversation Sona says, "The agency head told us that only Ram could have composed such a cutting edge, young, simple, evocative and memorable song. We have had so many people writing in to us telling how much they have liked the piece."
"Music can be so overpowering not only for films but also in other areas as well. There are no big name Bollywood names in the ad, its only the power of music that has driven it and helped the telecom operator to carve a niche amongst the herd of advertisements flooding the television space," further adds the producer.
The duo is working together for two albums one of which is slated to release in June. They are also planning to release Sona's immensely popular jingle 'Paas Aao Na' as a separate single
Individually, Ram is busy with Aamir Khan's Delhi Belly and UTV's untitled project with John Abraham apart from composing for various jingles. Sona on the other hand has recently sung a track for Vishal-Shekhar's 'I Hate Love Stories'. She is also busy with her world music album which is scheduled to be completed in a fortnight.
Send in your comments to: harpreet.khokhar@indiantelevision.co.in
Tags
News News
Related news
| 15 Oct 2014
One Direction's Zayn Malik could sing for Bollywood
MUMBAI: Teenage idol of British band One Direction, Zayn Malik (now 21) is being wooed by Bollywood producers for a project that will cost them more than half a million pounds.
read more
| 15 Oct 2014
MIPCOM: Simon Cowell gets teary eyes during Personality of the Year acceptance speech
MUMBAI: On Tuesday, The X Factor judge Simon Cowell was presented with the Personality of the Year at the 2014 Marché International des Contenus Audiovisuels (MIPCOM) in Cannes.
read more
| 15 Oct 2014
Kesha to sue her former producer for sexual assault
MUMBAI: Singer Kesha has decided to sue her former producer Dr. Luke after accusing him of sexual assault and abuse.
read more
| 15 Oct 2014
Noel Gallagher of Oasis says no to autobiography
MUMBAI: Former Oasis star Noel Gallagher has turned down offers to write his autobiography because penning a book seems like a 'load of homework'.
Gallagher says he does not have the inclination to put the events of his life and career into words, reports contactmusic.com.
read more
| 15 Oct 2014
I will make history: singer/actor Ali Quli Mirza on his 'Bigg Boss 8' entry
MUMBAI: Dubai-based singer-actor Ali Quli Mirza, who is entering 'Bigg Boss 8' as a wild card entry, says he is all set to make history.
read more
Events
| 18 Jul 2018
International Radio Festival heads to Europe's cultural capital for ninth edition
MUMBAI: The ninth edition of International Radio Festival (IRF) will be held from 29 October to 4 November 2018. This radio galore will be held at Valetta, Malta, which is Europe’s cultural capital for 2018.Having the niche of being the world’s first and sole conference, IRF’s first outing was at Z...
Most Viewed
Hard Rock Cafe India 'constantly exploring' rock music
Zee Music acquires music rights of Akshay Kumar-starrer 'Rustom'
Sarthak Music ready to launch FM stations at Bhubaneswar, Rourkela
104.8 Ishq: Shahid confesses love for Rajesh Khanna on Battle of the Sexes with Sarthak
'Big City Pride Awards' to connect with listeners across Kolkata, Bengaluru and 14 CHR markets of Big FM
videos
Dwayne Bravo on The Chamiya Song
Every episode I did express not impress: EPR on MTV Hustle
Aditya Narayan on making of song 'Lillah'
explore RNM
EditorialFeaturesInterviewsNewsPress releasesReviewsHeadlinesInstagramYear EnderGadgetsPhotosMusicRadioVideosFunzoneGuess WhoGossipOn The GoPollQuizArchiveNewsletterRadio Connex
Stay Connected
Facebook   |
Twitter   |
Youtube   |
RSS
Contact Us
About RadioandMusic.com
Disclaimer
Subscribe
Copyright © 2025 RadioandMusic.com. All rights reserved.
RNM and all related titles and logos are trademarks of Indiantelevision.com Group
Games