Excellence in the Boardroom Free Summary by William A. Dimma
Skip navigation
Menu
Solutions
For Individuals
Try it for free
Login
How would you like to use getAbstract?
For my company
For myself
We help you to meet your learning objectives.
getAbstract offers a free trial to qualifying organizations that want to empower their workforce with curated expert knowledge.
Request a Demo
Enjoy 3 days of full online access to 27,000+ summaries
Risk-free: no credit card is required. After three days, your trial will expire automatically.
Business email address*
E-Mail
Try it for free
Join getAbstract to access the summary!
Join getAbstract to access the summary!
William A. Dimma
Excellence in the Boardroom
Best Practices In Corporate Directorship
Wiley,
2002
15 min read
10 take-aways
Audio & text
What's inside?
Management cannot govern a company; boards cannot manage a company.
Instant access to over 27,000 book summaries
Business email address*
Try it for free
For yourself
Discover your next favorite book with getAbstract.
See prices
For your company
Stay up-to-date with emerging trends in less time.
Learn more
Students
We're committed to helping #nextgenleaders.
See prices
Already a customer? Log in here.
auto-generated audio
1×
0.5×
0.75×
1×
1.25×
1.5×
1.75×
1×
Log in to listen to the audio summary.
auto-generated audio
Instant access to over 27,000 book summaries
Business email address*
Try it for free
For yourself
Discover your next favorite book with getAbstract.
See prices
For your company
Stay up-to-date with emerging trends in less time.
Learn more
Students
We're committed to helping #nextgenleaders.
See prices
Already a customer? Log in here.
19
Copy
Editorial Rating
9
The rating – what does it mean?
At getAbstract, we summarize books* that help people understand the world and make it better. Whatever we select for our library has to excel in one or the other of these two core criteria:
Enlightening – You’ll learn things that will inform and improve your decisions.
Helpful – You’ll take-away practical advice that will help you get better at what you do.
We rate each piece of content on a scale of 1–10 with regard to these two core criteria. Our rating helps you sort the titles on your reading list from solid (5) to brilliant (10). Books we rate below 5 won’t be summarized. Here's what the ratings mean:
10 – Brilliant. A helpful and/or enlightening book that, in addition to meeting the highest standards in all pertinent aspects, stands out even among the best. Often an instant classic and must-read for everyone.
9 – Superb. A helpful and/or enlightening book that is extremely well rounded, has many strengths and no shortcomings worth mentioning.
8 – Very good. A helpful and/or enlightening book that has a substantial number of outstanding qualities without excelling across the board, e.g. presents the latest findings in a topical field and is written by a renowned expert but lacks a bit in style.
7 – Good. A helpful and/or enlightening book that combines two or more noteworthy strengths, e.g. contains uncommonly novel ideas and presents them in an engaging manner.
6 – Notable. A helpful and/or enlightening book that stands out by at least one aspect, e.g. is particularly well structured.
5 – Solid. A helpful and/or enlightening book, in spite of its obvious shortcomings. For instance, it may offer decent advice in some areas while being repetitive or unremarkable in others.
*getAbstract is summarizing much more than books. We look at every kind of content that may matter to our audience: books, but also articles, reports, videos and podcasts. What we say here about books applies to all formats we cover.
Qualities
Innovative
Applicable
Qualities
While the rating tells you how good a book is according to our two core criteria, it says nothing about its particular defining features. Therefore, we use a set of 20 qualities to characterize each book by its strengths:
Applicable – You’ll get advice that can be directly applied in the workplace or in everyday situations.
Analytical – You’ll understand the inner workings of the subject matter.
Background – You’ll get contextual knowledge as a frame for informed action or analysis.
Bold – You’ll find arguments that may break with predominant views.
Comprehensive – You’ll find every aspect of the subject matter covered.
Concrete Examples – You’ll get practical advice illustrated with examples of real-world applications or anecdotes.
Controversial – You’ll be confronted with strongly debated opinions.
Eloquent – You’ll enjoy a masterfully written or presented text.
Engaging – You’ll read or watch this all the way through the end.
Eye opening – You’ll be offered highly surprising insights.
For beginners – You’ll find this to be a good primer if you’re a learner with little or no prior experience/knowledge.
For experts – You’ll get the higher-level knowledge/instructions you need as an expert.
Hot Topic – You’ll find yourself in the middle of a highly debated issue.
Innovative – You can expect some truly fresh ideas and insights on brand-new products or trends.
Insider’s take – You’ll have the privilege of learning from someone who knows her or his topic inside-out.
Inspiring – You’ll want to put into practice what you’ve read immediately.
Overview – You’ll get a broad treatment of the subject matter, mentioning all its major aspects.
Scientific – You’ll get facts and figures grounded in scientific research.
Visionary – You’ll get a glimpse of the future and what it might mean for you.
Well structured – You’ll find this to be particularly well organized to support its reception or application.
Recommendation
That creaking sound you hear is Bill Dimma closing the barn door after Enron already got out. Dimma sounds a late, but nevertheless critical, wakeup call for U.S. corporations: They must institute policies of sound corporate governance at the board of directors level if they are to succeed and survive. About 80% of Fortune 500 companies combine the roles of chairman of the board and CEO, violating Dimma’s rule number one - separate powers. getAbstract.com recommends that the management and directors of every one of these companies read Dimma’s book and implement the measures that he prescribes.
Summary
Begin With A Vision
What would an ideal board of directors look like - a board that could rescue a company from poor decision making or an Enron-like fiasco before it ever happened? Here’s a vision of the ideal board:
The Chairman of the Board and CEO are different people. Many companies don’t follow this advice and still succeed. However, the division of power is almost invariably preferable, in terms of corporate governance. Moreover, the chairman ought not be the retired CEO.
The board has seven to 12 members. Any more, and discussion evolves into speech making. Any fewer, and diversity and experience are limited.
The board contains no more than two members of management. The CEO becomes markedly less candid, as does the board, when other members of management are included.
There are at least four board committees for larger companies: audit, compensation and human relations, nominating committees and governance. In certain industries, you will see investment, public affairs and environmental committees as well. Members of management are not committee members.
The committees are small: three or four members is ample. Given a ...
Read on
Instant access to over 27,000 book summaries
Business email address*
Try it for free
For yourself
Discover your next favorite book with getAbstract.
See prices
For your company
Stay up-to-date with emerging trends in less time.
Learn more
Students
We're committed to helping #nextgenleaders.
See prices
Already a customer? Log in here.
About the Author
William Dimma has served on the boards of Capstone Investments, American Eco Corp.; Home Trust Co., Magellan Aerospace, Monsanto Canada, Polysar Chemical, Sears Canada, London Life Insurance, Toronto Star Newspapers and Union Carbide Canada and about 40 other companies.
My Highlights
Select the sections that are relevant to you. Your highlights will appear here.
Delete
Are you sure you want to remove the highlight?
Cancel
Delete
Highlight
Delete
Copy
Comment on this summary
Post
Sign in to share your opinion
More on this topic
Learners who read this summary also read
Book
Ram Charan
Owning Up
The 14 Questions Every Board Member Needs to Ask
Book
David A. Nadler et al.
Building Better Boards
A Blueprint for Effective Governance
Book
Ram Charan
Boards That Deliver
Advancing Corporate Governance From Compliance to Competitive Advantage
Book
John Harper
Chairing the Board
A Practical Guide to Activities & Responsibilities
Book
Bob Garratt
The Fish Rots from the Head
The Crisis in Our Boardrooms: Developing the Crucial Skills of the Competent Director
Article
Tren Griffin
“Bad or Good Board of Directors”
Related Skills
Corporate Finances
Develop the Organization
Ensure Regulatory Compliance
Executive Leadership
Human Resources
Lead Strategically
Management
Oversee Corporate Governance
Prepare Financial Reports
Shape Organizational Culture
Couldn't load component 'GaTopLayer'.
???en_US@general:footer.sectionName.navigation???
Company
About Us
#NextGenLeaders
Book Award
Careers
FAQs
Contact Us
Resources
How It Works
Benefits
Wish List
Journal
Customer Success Stories
Press Kit
Partners
Publisher Partners
Media Partners
Affiliate Partners
Alliance Partners
Product
Free Trial
Personal Subscriptions
Student Subscriptions
Gift Subscriptions
Corporate Solutions
Language
English
Deutsch
Español
Русский
中文
Português
Français
???en_US@general:footer.sectionName.legal???
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Operating Agreement
Accessibility
???en_US@general:footer.sectionName.socialAndApps???
Facebook
LinkedIn
Instagram
Twitter
???en_US@general:footer.sectionName.copyright???
© 1999-2025, getAbstract