The Films of Ang Lee - by Michael E. Grost
Ang Lee | Sense and Sensibility
| Brokeback Mountain
Classic Film and Television Home Page (with many articles on directors)
Ang Lee
Ang Lee has directed films in both Taiwan and the United States.
Sense and Sensibility
Sense and Sensibility (1995) shares several features with
the later Brokeback Mountain. The world of both films is
similar. Both take place in a natural landscape, green, wet, hilly,
geographically spread out, one in which people use horses for
transport, and raise sheep. Both are worlds in which people create
their own entertainment: music is provided by live singers, there
are elaborate dances in large halls, lots of intimate two person
conversations, exchanges of life history, festivities with sky
imagery (coins in Sense and Sensibility, fireworks in Brokeback
Mountain), and ordinary people doubling as their society's
entertainers (poetry reciters and musicians in Sense and Sensibility,
rodeo performers in Brokeback Mountain). Living within
extended families, much concern over money and getting family
financial support, and the endless passing around of the deeply
kept secrets of one's personal life are key lifestyles in both
films. Both worlds seem "pre-modern": relics of an era
before modern times, urban living, and mass communication.
The two Dashwood sisters in Sense and Sensibility seem
oddly similar to Jack and Ennis in the latter film. Both have
an intimate closeness, beyond anything they share with their heterosexual
partners. There are several scenes in which the sisters sleep
together in the same bed, cuddling close for warmth, like Jack
and Ennis sharing a blanket together early on the mountain. The
personalities are related, too. Eleanor is like Ennis: repressed,
bottled-up, with intense feelings locked inside, constantly giving
up her natural emotions to live according to society's ideas of
duty. This is regarded as "sense" in the earlier film,
but nightmarishly tragic in the latter. It has its dark side in
Sense and Sensibility, too, however, with its heroine much
too ready to settle for less. Her overwhelming tears at the end,
where she finally lets out her repressed feelings, are like Ennis'
tears that he sheds at ultimate moments. By contrast, Marianne
and Jack pursue their romantic interests, and frequently get rebuffed,
hurt, and finally approach death.
Brokeback Mountain
Brokeback Mountain is a personal film for Ang Lee. Like
The Wedding Banquet, it deals with gay men pressured into
heterosexual marriage and fatherhood by social convention. Like
Sense and Sensibility, it contains a long, difficult and
frustrating search for what is often an unrequited love, by one
person for another. Like The Ice Storm, it deals with the
dysfunction sexual mores of a well defined place and era in American
history. Like much of Lee's work, parent-child relationships play
a major role. Also like many of Lee's films, there is a multi-protagonist,
many person Point of View.
The mystical or fantastic side of Brokeback Mountain
The Earthsea series by Ursula K. Le Guin are fantasy books
that take place in an imaginary realm. Earth formations, such
as mountains, caves and rocks have magical powers and are more-or-less
alive. They are known as the Dark Powers of the Earth, and become
centers of cults, oracles and strange events.
Brokeback Mountain (the mountain, not the movie as a whole) has
something of the same feel here. It seems to be a place with spiritual
powers. People go up to it, and behave it different ways than
they can elsewhere. It has a unique geometric shape, at which
we keep staring, and which seems trying to convey some moral significance.
It is often peeking out though mist. One also thinks of Hanging
Rock in the Peter Weir film.
The postcards with Brokeback Mountain on them are like spiritual
messages from another world. They send messages of love - and
eventually its exact opposite, death. These are like the messages
from the otherworld the hero receives over the radio in Orpheus
(Cocteau). And the messages about the famine in The Year of
Living Dangerously (Peter Weir) that come over the heroine's
security teletype machine. In all three films, these are messengers
of Hidden Truth, oracles that have a special relationship to reality,
information not obtainable elsewhere.
An opposing or at least very different set of mental states is
offered by Ennis' childhood memory or account of the persecution
of the gay men. This is staged as a visionary experience. It is
outside of the normal bounds of space and time. We see a ritual-like
procession of the father and the two boys. The boys are being
inducted into a sinister rite. At its center: a human sacrifice,
as in many religions. The characters move forward in a dream-like,
hallucinatory way, like the processions in the strange zone in
Orpheus. The landscape is different too, from the rest
of Brokeback Mountain. It is a low, dry rocky desert, with
some modest valleys and hills. This is like the land of Death
in LeGuin's Earthsea books: The Dry Land where spirits wander
after death. It is also like the similar land of death to which
the characters travel at the end of the Sami film, The Cuckoo
(Alexander Rogozhkin, 2002). And also the "dead border station"
in The Desert of the Tartars (Valerio Zurlini, 1976), which
is similarly contrasted to the green places where the hero grew
up.
Towards the end of the film, Ennis has a second vision, seeing
Jack's death. This is not in the Dry Land - it takes place in
a real, and fertile green ditch. But is it is related as a mental
vision. The original prose story makes the link clearer in another
way: Ennis realizes that Jack's death is due to "the"
tire iron, just like the killing showed him by his dad.
This religion is evil. It seems to be practiced in secret, and
only by men. It is not the same as Christianity, which in the
film is associated with women and heterosexual marriage: the church
with the wedding, and Jack's mother at the end, seen against a
crucifix on the wall.
There are other scenes with a mystical significance. We see Ennis
shown against a huge fireworks display, which erupts behind him.
At the end, Ennis has the postcard of Brokeback Mountain displayed
like a shrine, and swears to it. There is also Jack's discussion
of Pentecost, which he does not understand at all. But the way
the Spirit seems to descend on the couple on Brokeback Mountain
at the start is perhaps an expression of this Event.
Gay Themes
1) The two men in Brokeback Mountain are highly dysfunctional.
They lead lives that are full of bad choices, and they leave a
world of hurt behind them. Interpreting such characters is always
fraught with difficulties - even in films full of vastly less
controversial material than BM. Does a film justify dysfunctional
characters? Condemn them? Condemn them but pity them? Excuse them?
It is not clear that Brokeback Mountain regards Jack and
Ennis as "typical gays" or as representing "gay
life". Many people have read the film
as suggesting Jack and Ennis are "pre-gay": what happens
to men with gay feelings who reject, supress gay feelings and
life choices. The film (in this interpretation) shows how rejecting
gay feelings lead to emotional destruction and a wasted life.
In particular, Ennis:
refuses to give Jack any tenderness or affection or love
refuses to have a relationship after their first summer
later refuses to live with Jack
refuses to take up with Jack after his divorce
refuses to see Jack oftener than two weeks a year.
The hell this puts the two men - and their wives - through is
the tragic result of this refusal. If Ennis had accepted Jack's
love, and lived with him as a couple, their lives would have been
infinitely better. Instead, Ennis clings to heterosexual lifestyle
ideals, tormenting both Jack and the innocent Alma he has dragged
into the middle.
According to this interpretation (and it is the one seen in many
reviews, as well as being widely supported by the film itself,
IMHO), Jack and Ennis' life is as repulsive and dysfunctional
and unappealing as my critics suggest. However, this life is not
"gay life" - it is the life that occurs when people
reject gay life to live a lie. It is not intended to make heterosexuals
or anyone feel superior to gays. It is intended to show that the
teaching of the Religious Right - that gay men should supress
their gay feelings and lead a het life - leads to human wreckage.
If I could risk comparison with a very great film, There Was
a Father (Ozu, 1942) shows a man who
keeps rejecting his child, and refusing a relationship in the
name of various high-minded social ideals. Brokeback Mountain
has a little of the same structure.
2) Ennis is "bottled up": he is full of feelings that
masculine socialization has trained to supress. Many men (both
gay and straight) strongly identify with such characters. I suspect
that much of huge appeal of Brokeback Mountain and Ennis
in particular directly comes from this. Many men immediately identify
with Ennis, and give him their secret but overwhelming support
and love. He has the same problem they do - they've had a nasty
upbringing prevent them from letting go and fulfilling their feelings.
I had a (straight) friend years ago in college, who wanted to
be a gym coach, while his parents were determined he would be
an engineer like his father. They just tormented this kid, and
put him through the tortures of the damned. And he was a nice
guy. I told him that most parents would be thrilled to have a
son like him - he worked hard, never touched drugs or alcohol,
was honest, etc.
This sort of experience is virtually the Male Condition for many
contemporary men. Brokeback Mountain positions Ennis' supressed
gay feelings as this sort of "man trying to let his feelings
out" situation.
It is easy to imagine Heath Ledger getting the Oscar next spring,
with lots of straight men identifying with him and secretly cheering
him on. Ledger's great scene stealing moments - his secret collapse
in tears after leaving his friend after the first summer, and
his final scene in the parents' home - directly build on such
experiences. He lets out what he feels, but what he tragically
could never say to Jack.
3) Brokeback Mountain does indeed try to interpret gay
feelings in a way that straight people can understand. This seems
to horrify some people, and thrill others. It is clearly not the
definitive recipe for all gay cinema. But is it so awful for an
occasional movie?
This is a very complex issue that could lead to a lot more ramifications.
4) Brokeback Mountain is on its most morally weak ground
in its treatment of its two heroes' wives. The film does not really
show the full negative real consequences that occur when gay men
pretend to be straight, lie to women they marry, and deceive them
by having adulterous gay sex while pretending to be faithful husbands.
This is the part of the film that seems to have lead to its negative
reviews by Dave Kehr and Andrew Sarris. They have strong points
here.
Brokeback Mountain does not endorse such marriages. But
it does excuse and pretty up the men who commit them. Allegedly:
It is all a response to homophobia.
Plus the women don't really get hurt much.
Plus it all took place back in 1963 and in Wyoming, a time
and place where people didn't know better.
This is the same sort of crock that many movies use to pretty
up and justify straight adultery (man cheating on his wife with
another woman).
I can see why this part of the film could really turn people off.
To the point they reject Brokeback Mountain.
As Dave Kehr pointed out, Making Love (Arthur Hiller) gave
a far more responsible treatment of these issues. I could add
The Dying Gaul (Craig Lucas,
2005).
The Dying Gaul ferociously condemns gay men who engage
in this sort of adultery. And it undercuts the idea that there
is something "liberating" about such conduct, or that
it is a form of "gay liberation".
Nobody wants to see The Dying Gaul. I am one of 5 Americans
who paid to see it. As a look at the real world of adultery, it
is pretty strong stuff. It is not an evening of fun. Still, like
the "horrors of heterosexual adultery" film Love
Letters (Amy Jones), it tells some home truths that would
benefit most people to keep in mind. I suspect that it would benefit
society if all Americans were required to see and write a paper
about these two films on turning 18.
5) On a more positive note, Brokeback Mountain deserves
respect for condemning gay bashing. There are still lots of people
who defend gay bashing, who fight like tigers against legislation
against hate crimes, etc. Brokeback Mountain is not being
trendy or indulging in cheap effects here. This is a problem that
is still with us.