11 Julie Garwood Trivia Quizzes | Literature
Fun Trivia
Sections
Trivia Questions
Trivia Quizzes
Daily and Hourly Trivia Games
Ask FunTrivia - Get Answers to Questions
Crossword Puzzles
Trivia Questions Archive
Trivia
Animal Trivia
Bible Trivia
Brain Teasers
Celebrity Quizzes
Trivia For Kids
General Knowledge
Geography Quizzes
History Trivia
Hobbies Trivia
Humanities Quizzes
Literature Quizzes
Movie Trivia
Music Trivia
Famous People Trivia
Religion Quizzes
Science Trivia
Sports Trivia
Television Trivia
World Trivia
All Trivia and Quiz Topics
Services
Gold Memberships: Gift Certificates
Get Daily Email Trivia
Create a Daily Trivia Tournament
Pub Trivia Question Packs
Buy Trivia Questions
Large Scale Content / Data Licensing
Contact Us
New Player
Log In
New Player   |
Log In
FREE! Click here to Join FunTrivia.  Thousands of games, quizzes, and lots more!
Julie Garwood Trivia
Julie Garwood Trivia Quizzes
Home
»
Quizzes
»
Literature Trivia
»
Authors D-G
Julie Garwood's earliest work was in historical romance, often featuring somewhat klutzy heroines, but her later contemporary romances have proved equally popular with readers.
11 Julie Garwood quizzes and  145
Julie Garwood trivia questions.
Play: Mixed 'Julie Garwood' Quiz
1.
Julie Garwood Novels
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
Using the names of the characters, choose the title of the book that they belong to. Average, 10 Qns, chunkymunky67,
Jan 21 17
Average
chunkymunky67
1584 plays
2.
"The Clayborne Brides" by Julie Garwood
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
"The Clayborne Brides" follows brothers Travis, Douglas and Adam as they find true love. Average, 10 Qns, positive,
Dec 26 17
Average
positive
829 plays
3.
"For The Roses"
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
Written by Julie Garwood, this book deals with love and family and all the insanity of life. Average, 10 Qns, positive,
May 03 07
Average
positive
886 plays
4.
Julie Garwood's "Honor's Splendor"
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
This Julie Garwood classic is a wonderful book.  I hope taking the quiz reminds you of it, and makes you smile as I did as I wrote the quiz and remembered the book. Average, 10 Qns, gardeninggirl,
Oct 19 08
Average
gardeninggirl
291 plays
5.
'Ransom' Demands
Multiple Choice
15 Qns
Here are some questions about Julie Garwood's best-selling novel 'Ransom'. Average, 15 Qns, kinneylover20,
Feb 24 11
Average
kinneylover20
201 plays
6.
'For The Roses'
Multiple Choice
25 Qns
One of my favorite Julie Garwood novels. Average, 25 Qns, chunkymunky67,
Oct 28 06
Average
chunkymunky67
990 plays
7.
Regency England According to Julie Garwood
Multiple Choice
25 Qns
Welcome to my Julie Garwood quiz!  This will cover the books: 'The Gift', 'Castles', 'Guardian Angel', 'The Lion's Lady' and 'Rebellious Desire'!  Enjoy! Average, 25 Qns, kinneylover20,
Dec 15 11
Average
kinneylover20
144 plays
8.
"Guardian Angel" by Julia Garwood
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
This is the story of Caine, Jade, and the famous pirate Pagan.  This is one of my favorite Julie Garwood books. Easier, 10 Qns, scarlett21,
Oct 12 03
Easier
scarlett21
866 plays
9.
Julie Garwood - Name The Character
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
Given the clue, choose which character. Average, 10 Qns, chunkymunky67,
Nov 12 06
Average
chunkymunky67
1558 plays
10.
Julie Garwood Characters II
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
O.K., I made the first one way too easy. Given the clue, choose the character. This time they are not the main characters. Average, 10 Qns, chunkymunky67,
Jun 29 03
Average
chunkymunky67
1191 plays
Quick Question
Who thought she was barren, then discovered otherwise?
From Quiz "Julie Garwood - Name The Character"
Judith
Johanna
Jade
Sara
11.
"Gentle Warrior" by Julie Garwood
Multiple Choice
10 Qns
"Gentle Warrior" is one of my favorite books.  The story of Geoffrey and Elizabeth is amazing.  They learned to survive married life together. Average, 10 Qns, scarlett21,
Nov 01 03
Average
scarlett21
639 plays
Related Topics
Historical Fiction
[Literature]  (6 quizzes)
Romantic Fiction
[Literature]  (19 quizzes)
Young Adult Fiction
[Literature]  (30 quizzes)
Julie Garwood Trivia Questions
1. 'The Lion's Lady':
In whose receiving room do Lyon and Christina first meet?
From Quiz Regency England According to Julie Garwood
Answer: Lord Carlson's
Lyon and Christina meet one another at Lord Carlson's home after Rhone (a reputed ladies man) is dismissed easily by the princess.  Sir Reynolds performs the introduction between the two future lovers. They meet again later at Lord Baker's home. Sir Richards is Lyon's former director.
2. Alec tells his mother that Gillian calls him "honey bear".  Who used to call Gillian the same endearment?
From Quiz 'Ransom' Demands
Answer: William
When Gillian was young and her father was alive, she and her sister, Christen, had their own guards.  The guards called Christen "golden girl".  But William gave Gillian the "silly nickname" of "honey bear".
3. What is Duncan doing the first time Madelyne sees him?
From Quiz Julie Garwood's "Honor's Splendor"
Answer: He is standing nearly naked tied to a pole.
Her brother's plan was to freeze him to death and move him to another location so the deed could not be blamed on him.
4. What was Elizabeth's pet that she raised from a baby?
From Quiz "Gentle Warrior" by Julie Garwood
Answer: Hawk
The soldiers saw this as a sign because Geoffrey's nickname was Hawk.
5. What was Caine's nickname when he worked for the War Department?
From Quiz "Guardian Angel" by Julia Garwood
Answer: Hunter
Caine was called Hunter because when he hunted someone he usually found them.
6. "The Clayborne Brides" is actually a trilogy.  Whose story is the first one told ("One Pink Rose")?
From Quiz "The Clayborne Brides" by Julie Garwood
Answer: Travis
Set in the late 1800s in Montana, "The Clayborne Brides" is a true western romance series. Travis, Douglas, and Adam all find true love and, at times, another family.
7. Where in New York do Adam, Douglas, Cole, and Travis find a basket containing an infant girl?
From Quiz "For The Roses"
Answer: in the garbage
Douglas sees a woman throw a basket into the trash and when he hears noises coming from it, he sends Adam to investigate while he follows the woman.
8. What name did the boys give Mary Rose when they thought she was a boy?
From Quiz 'For The Roses'
Answer: Sidney
They assumed she was a boy because she was bald.
9. Who gave poor Angus his last rites, when poor Angus wasn't dying?
From Quiz Julie Garwood Characters II
Answer: Father Murdock
Father Murdock, from The Bride, gave Angus his last rites, but Jamie could see his injuries were all 'bluster'.
10. Although on accident,who poisoned half a ship's crew?
From Quiz Julie Garwood - Name The Character
Answer: Sara
Sara, from The Gift, tried to impress the crew with her cooking skills, and succeeded in giving them a good case of food poisoning!
11. 'Guardian Angel':
What biblical figure does Caine compare Jade to when they first meet?
From Quiz Regency England According to Julie Garwood
Answer: Judas
Jade asks Caine to kill "someone" (later revealed to be herself) for 30 pieces of silver.  That amount of currency is the same that Judas was given to betray Jesus.  Jade even says, "I am no Judas, sir."
12. What is the name of the unfortunate MacDonald solider that was sent to deliver Gillian's message to Brodrick?
From Quiz 'Ransom' Demands
Answer: Henley
Henley happened upon Gillian at Len's Holding.  He is given the mission of telling Brodrick that his bride is awaiting him.  All of the Buchanan guards do their best to scare the messenger and succeed.  The scariest part by far was telling the Buchanan Laird that his lady "commands you to hurry".
13. What is the name of Madelyne's brother?
From Quiz Julie Garwood's "Honor's Splendor"
Answer: Loudden
While Loudden is introduced as Madelyn's brother, we find out toward the end of the book that they are not related by blood.
14. How many days was Geoffrey asleep?
From Quiz "Gentle Warrior" by Julie Garwood
Answer: Six
He had an injury in his back.  Elizabeth had came and doctored him.
15. What did Pagan leave behind as a calling card?
From Quiz "Guardian Angel" by Julia Garwood
Answer: A white rose
I really liked the calling card because only a woman would leave a rose behind.  The whole of London thought Pagan was a man.  They were wrong.
16. Why did Emily Finnegan ("One Pink Rose")leave Boston and come to Montana Territory?  She wanted...
From Quiz "The Clayborne Brides" by Julie Garwood
Answer: to marry a stranger (she was a mail-order bride)
After being jilted, Emily made a rash decision that eventually led her to love.
17. The boys think that the baby is a boy because it is bald. They decide to name him Sidney but when they discover that he is a she, they change the name to Mary Rose. Who do they name her after?
From Quiz "For The Roses"
Answer: Cole's mother and Adam's mother
The boys decide to name the infant after Cole's mother, Mary, and Adam's mother, Rose.
18. Whose mothers was Mary Rose named for?
From Quiz 'For The Roses'
Answer: Cole and Adam
Cole's mother, Mary, died when he was born. A neighbor told him she was a good woman. Adam's mother was Rose, and she became mother to all the Claybornes.
19. Who pretended to be pregnant to get out of marrying MacInnes, and ended up being beaten?
From Quiz Julie Garwood Characters II
Answer: Clare
Clare, from Saving Grace, was severely beaten after claiming a MacBain fathered her unborn (and non-existant) child.
20. Who saved the queen's niece from a fire, only to burn herself in the process?
From Quiz Julie Garwood - Name The Character
Answer: Nicholaa
Nicholaa, from The Prize, saved Queen Matilda's niece, suffering serious burns on her arms.
21. 'The Gift':
Colin asks Nathan what he thinks of his bride, Sara, when they spy on her at a garden party.  What is Nathan's response?
From Quiz Regency England According to Julie Garwood
Answer: "She'll fit through the window."
Sara's family, the Winchesters are a notoriously overweight brood.  Colin jokes to Nathan that his plan to capture his bride from her bedroom window may not work because she might not fit through it.  Colin uses this possibility to get Nathan to spy on Lady Sara.
22. How was the little boy related to Elizabeth?
From Quiz "Gentle Warrior" by Julie Garwood
Answer: Her brother
He did not speak after the murders till he watched a soldier practice.  The soldier made a mistake and cut off the head to the dummy.  The boy remember that that was how his mother died.
23. When Mama Rose finally moves out west to be with her family she brings everyone a gift.  However, Cole's is accidently stolen/borrowed by a US Marshal. What was he supposed to get?
From Quiz "The Clayborne Brides" by Julie Garwood
Answer: a gold compass
The boys are angered that Cole's gift was "stolen". However, circumstances are not always what they seem.
24. What was Mary Rose's real name?
From Quiz 'For The Roses'
Answer: Victoria
25. Who was a very near-sighted pirate?
From Quiz Julie Garwood Characters II
Answer: Black Harry
Black Harry, from Guardian Angel, would often lose his spectacles, and would send his men out to steal more.
26. Who made a list of suitable men to marry?
From Quiz Julie Garwood - Name The Character
Answer: Alesandra
Princess Alesandra, from Castles, was very organized. She made a list for everything, including a list of her lists!
27. 'Castles':
Alesandra told Colin she had two reasons for coming to London.  One reason was to find out more about her friend's disappearance.  What was the second reason?
From Quiz Regency England According to Julie Garwood
Answer: To marry Colin
Colin's father, the duke, mentions that he thinks Colin would make her a good husband.  Alesandra is immediately on board with the decision because she needs to marry so quickly.
This is category 8910
= Top 5% Rated Quiz,
Top 10% Rated Quiz,
Top 20% Rated Quiz,
A Well Rated Quiz
=
added recently,  = Editor's Pick
= FunTrivia Editor  = Gold Member
Teachers / educators:   FunTrivia welcomes the use of our website and quizzes in the classroom as a teaching aid or for preparing and testing students.  See our education section.  Our quizzes are printable and may be used as question sheets by k-12 teachers, parents, and home schoolers.
·  All questions, answers, and quiz content on this website is copyright FunTrivia, Inc and may not be reproduced without permission.  Any images from TV shows and movies are copyright their studios, and are being used under "fair use" for commentary and education.