Home | Loyola High School
Skip to main content
Apply now
Stay
Informed
Make a
Gift
Jesuit
educated
Search
Secondary Menu
COBA
Alumni
News
Lemira
EnglishFrançais
Main navigation
About
Mission
History
Our Future
Our Facilities
Governance
Leadership
Employment
Contact
Values
Jesuit Catholic Education
Human Excellence
Pedagogical Approach
Student Life
Academics
Athletics
Arts
Spirituality
Extra-curriculars
Wellness
Student Ombudsman
Character Formation
Community
Calendar of Events
Get Involved
Alumni
Families
Hall of Merit
Connect with Loyola
Admissions
Apply
Tuition & Financial Aid
FAQ
Support Loyola
Advancing the Mission
Make a gift
Office of Advancement
Loyola Foundations
Loyola.ca uses cookies to give you a better online experience.
I accept
I decline
Privacy Notice
Discover your passion
Choose
a Jesuit
Education
Since our founding in 1896, we have nurtured the unique talents and passions of our students to help them become the leaders of tomorrow, forming them into individuals who are intellectually competent, compassionate, guided by conscience, and committed to a just global society. We have graduated students for generations from all faiths, beliefs and traditions who model the Jesuit ideal of being men and women for others.
The Loyola Difference
Loyola is a school to be cherished and commended for the character building of its students and the essence of community - they do it right!
Andrew & Manon
Loyola parents
What stands out to me about Loyola are the amazing educators. Each teacher does everything in their power to see their students succeed, offering individual feedback and extra-help sessions off-the-clock for any student in need.
Daniel Magee, alumni
Loyola’s athletic program provided me with the proper tools and experience to help me succeed as a student-athlete beyond high school. Loyola’s standards, expectations and discipline were critical contributors to my success.
Jeff Dosado
Player Development Consultant, Montreal Alliance
Loyola was a formative experience full of firsts; my first time performing to a big audience, my first time playing in a band, and so many others. These experiences were instrumental to my development as a musician.
David Rourke, alumni
Student at The Juilliard School of Music
Loyola's focus is for students not just to be better students, athletes or artists, but to excel as well-rounded people committed to a just society.
Thomas Khairy
Named Forbes’ Top 30 Under 30
We couldn't be prouder for our son — and now our daughter! — to represent a fourth generation of our family at Loyola, benefitting from everything a strong Jesuit, Catholic education has to offer.
Mark Noble, alumni
Loyola’s values-based formation and spiritual life made me a better Hindu.
Debraj Das, alumni
Learn more about the impact of a Jesuit formation
Information regarding this year's Summer School classes will be available soon. For any questions or concerns, please contact Mr. Carmine Taddeo at taddeoc@loyola.ca.
News & Calendar
The II Congress of JESEDU-Montreal 2027 committee met in Washington, DC, to begin preparations for the global Jesuit education gathering that Loyola High School Montreal will host in two years.
Read more about First Organizing Committee Meeting:  II Congress of JESEDU-Montreal 2027
The 54th annual sports tournament will take place from January 18 to 25, 2025.
Read more about 54th Annual Loyola Ed Meagher Sports Tournament
The Summer/Fall 2024 edition of Loyola Today is now available!
Read more about Loyola Today - Summer/Fall 2024
View all news
Upcoming Events
Mar
25
Navigating the Digital World: What Parents & Kids Need to Know
7:00 pm to 8:00 pm
Join Dr. Alissa Sklar for a presentation on "Cell Phones, Sexting & Social Media: What Parents and Kids Need to Know" and learn key strategies for safe, responsible online behaviour.Location: Eric Maclean SJ Center for the Performing Arts, 2477 West Broadway, Montreal, QC H4B1R2.
Register Here
View full Calendar
Student life
Academics
Athletics
Arts
Extra-curriculars
Accessible to All
Do you need to be Catholic to attend Loyola? Of course not! Our goal is to ensure our whole person formation is accessible to all regardless of gender, language, faith, or belief. Our generous and thriving financial aid program ensures that a family’s finances are not a barrier to students who aspire to join the Loyola community.
Read more about our financial aid program
Where our graduates have studied
Loyola High School
7272 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal Quebec
Canada H4B 1R2
T 514 486-1101
F 514 486-7266
Apply Now
Privacy Notice
Student Ombudsman
About
Mission
History
Our Future
Our Facilities
Governance
Leadership
Employment
Contact
Values
Student Life
Community
Admissions
Support Loyola
COBA
Alumni
News
Lemira
Stay Informed