Openly Gay Parti Québécois Leader Andre Boisclair Resigns - Towleroad Gay News
Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footerAdvertise
Contact Us
About Towleroad
Towleroad on Social Media
Privacy Policy
Search this websiteTowleroad Gay News
Gay Blog Towleroad: More than gay news | gay men
Travel
Sports
Law/Justice
Celebrities
Republicans
Madonna
Books
Men
Trans Rights
Royals
Monkeypox
Sophia Bush’s girlfriend ‘proud’ the actress has opened up about coming out as queer
Mel B declares she’ll ‘always be open’ when it comes to her sexuality!
Megan Thee Stallion being sued for ‘forcing cameraman watch her having lesbian sex!’
Openly Gay Parti Québécois Leader Andre Boisclair Resigns
Andy Towle May 8, 2007 Following March elections in which Parti Québécois had its poorest showing in decades, openly gay leader Andre Boisclair bowed to pressure and resigned today. Boisclair's party appeared to have little faith left in his ability to push for a third referendum on independence for the French-Canadian province.
Said Boisclair: “I would have loved to be the leader of the party. It's not possible for me. Somebody else will have to do it.”
Boisclair's tenure has been a unique one, notes  the International Herald Tribune: “When he was elected leader of the Parti Quebecois in November 2005, Boisclair, 41, made headlines for being openly gay and admitting to using cocaine while serving as a cabinet minister. His relative youth also marked a stark departure from previous sovereignty leaders, most of whom traced their roots to the PQ's founding in the late-1960s.”
Last November, Boisclair was criticized for participating in a skit on Canadian TV which used Brokeback Mountain to parody the relationship between George Bush and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper. The sketch featured Bush and Harper shirtless inside a pup tent. George Bush fondles his nipples before throwing two cherries at Harper. The cherries then appear strategically placed atop two mounds of whipped cream on Harper's chest. The tent unzips and Boisclair, peeking his head through, says “Quebec won't get mixed up in something like that.”
According to the IHT, “Boisclair fought back tears at the press conference announcing his resignation. He said the sovereignty movement would rebound. ‘I'm deeply convinced that this brave nation will assume its freedom,' he said.”
Topics: News More Posts About: André Boisclair, Canada, Canada, News, Quebec
Related Posts
LGBTQ Pro Wrestling Documentary ‘Out In The Ring’ Wins Best Canadian Feature at Inside Out Toronto Film Festival
Russia Blocks Facebook, Accusing it of Restricting Access to Russian Media;
18 Naked Gay Cowboys of ‘Ram Ranch’ Offer Effective Antibody Protection vs. Annoying, Unpopular Uprising by Mutating Anti-Vax Trucker Variant
Mel B declares she’ll ‘always be open’ when it comes to her sexuality!Published by BANG Showbiz English Mel B will “always be open” when it comes to her sexuality. The Spice Girls singer, 48, who reunited with her bandmates including the group's ex-singer Victoria Beckham for the fashion …Read More »Megan Thee Stallion being sued for ‘forcing cameraman watch her having lesbian sex!’Published by BANG Showbiz English Megan Thee Stallion is being sued for allegedly creating a hostile work environment and forcing her cameraman to watch her having lesbian sex. The 29-year-old ‘Savage' rapper faces the salacious claims …Read More »Mean Girls star Jonathan Bennett recalls the moment his life ‘changed forever’Published by BANG Showbiz English Jonathan Bennett's life was “changed forever” by his role in ‘Mean Girls'. The 42-year-old actor starred as heartthrob Aaron Samuels in the 2004 cult classic – which followed Lindsay Lohan, Rachel …Read More »Sir Elton John sent Lance Bass gift basket to celebrate coming outPublished by BANG Showbiz English Sir Elton John sent Lance Bass a gift basket after he came out as gay. The 44-year-old NSYNC star revealed the legendary singer showed his support when Lance decided to reveal …Read More »
Previous Post: « High Court Justice Michael Kirby Performs Equality RapNext Post: About the Banner #17 »Primary Sidebar
Most Recent
Sophia Bush’s girlfriend ‘proud’ the actress has opened up about coming out as queerMel B declares she’ll ‘always be open’ when it comes to her sexuality!Megan Thee Stallion being sued for ‘forcing cameraman watch her having lesbian sex!’Mean Girls star Jonathan Bennett recalls the moment his life ‘changed forever’Sir Elton John sent Lance Bass gift basket to celebrate coming outRelationship status influences heterosexual women’s sexual prejudice towards lesbiansJoJo Siwa had a challenge transitioning to new grown-up imageLiz Hurley defends lesbian sex scene in new movie that was directed by her son
Partner Links
Donald Trump’s national security team added a journalist to their war groupchatThe other day, I was thinking about the mid-air crash of […]Duchess Meghan released her ‘ShopMy’ curated fashion recommendationsFor YEARS I said that the Duchess of Sussex needed to […]Watch Hannah Einbinder receive the HRC Visibility Award at the 2025 HRC Los Angeles dinnerTennis TuesdayGet to the bottom of this BELOW.Kudos to eagle-eyed tennis fan […]Tribute to Steve McQueen, born 95 years ago today!As far as I’m concerned, Steve McQueen was one of sexiest […]
Most Commented
Social
Twitter
@tlrd |
Facebook |
Instagram @tlrd
About
Advertise
Contact Us
About Towleroad
Towleroad on Social Media
Privacy Policy
[towleroadmr]
[towleroadtn]
Footer
Ptown Hacks 2018
Read
Travel
Film
Law – LGBT Rights
Columns
Specials
About
Advertise
Contact Us
About Towleroad
Towleroad on Social Media
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2025 · Log in
×
×