Stefanie Schaeffer trumps James Sun, wins 'The Apprentice: LA' -  Reality TV World
Show Updates
People News
Spoiler News
Entertainment News
RealityTVDB
POP Hollywood
Reality TV News Wire
Features & Interviews
Sexy Social Pics of the Day
Things to Know Profiles
Message Boards
Shows Listing
90 Day Fiance
The Amazing Race
American Idol
America's Got Talent
America's Next Top Model
Bachelor in Paradise
The Bachelor
The Bachelorette
Big Brother
Celebrity Big Brother
Counting On
Dance Moms
Dancing with the Stars
Fixer Upper
Flip or Flop
Hell's Kitchen
Keeping Up with the Kardashians
Love After Lockup
Marriage Boot Camp
Married at First Sight
MasterChef
Paradise Hotel
Project Runway
The Real Housewives
Shark Tank
So You Think You Can Dance
Survivor
Teen Mom
Temptation Island
Top Chef
The Voice
World of Dance
More Shows
HOME > The Apprentice > The Apprentice: Los Angeles
Stefanie Schaeffer trumps James Sun, wins 'The Apprentice: LA'
By Christopher Rocchio, 04/23/2007
Stefanie Schaeffer was hired by Donald Trump during last night's finale of NBC's The Apprentice: Los Angeles which featured a live boardroom broadcast from the Hollywood Bowl.  The 32-year-old Los Angeles attorney was chosen out of 18 professionals who competed in a 14-week job interview during The Apprentice's sixth season, which was also the first to have four finalists instead of two.
ADVERTISEMENT
"Stefani you've gone under the radar, but you've gotten along with everybody.  You're obviously brilliant based on your academic background, your marks, everything you've done, and I want to really commend you," said Trump before revealing she was the winner.  "You've done a fantastic job."
While Trump acknowledged he was "a little bit concerned" Stefanie went under the radar for most of the competition, he still decided to hire her during The Apprentice's finale and fire the show's three other remaining finalists:  Frank Lombardi, a 27-year-old contracting company founder from Bronx, NY; James Sun, a 29-year-old Internet entrepreneur from Seattle, WA; and Nicole D'Ambrosio, a 25-year-old commercial real estate corporation owner and broker from Chicago, IL.
"Mr. Trump, I think what you've seen from me is someone who's had the respect of every single one of their team members from Day 1 until today," Stefanie said when answering how she would explain flying under the radar.  "I never took credit for other people's ideas.  I contributed my own ideas and made sure my team looked good all the time.  If someone was falling below the appropriate standard, I made them look good.  I filled in the spaces.  I made us work as a team.  That's what a leader does."
During the broadcast of The Apprentice: Los Angeles' penultimate episode last Sunday, Stefanie and James were paired together and competed against Frank and Nicole in the season's final task, requiring them to write, direct and produce a 60-second commercial for an air-freshener company.  Trump told Frank and Nicole their commercial "wasn't good" and also reminded Frank how he was almost fired during the competition's first week.  While he loved Frank's "drive," he added there are "certain liabilities" and fired him.
Donald Trump and The Apprentice: Los Angeles winner Stefanie Schaeffer (Photo credit NBC/Chris Haston) Nicole then met the same fate.  During the competition, she developed a relationship with fellow applicant Tim Urban, a 24-year-old tutoring company owner from Los Angeles, CA.  Trump told Nicole during the finale that while he is a "believer in romance," he's not a "believer in inter-office romance."
"You love Tim, you like Tim... I think that's wonderful.  But you know what?  I want you to love me more.  It's important because I have to be the boss," explained Trump before firing Nicole.
With the competition down to James and Stefanie, The Donald turned to his two children -- Ivanka and Donald Jr. -- who flanked him throughout the finale and much of The Apprentice's sixth season.  Ivanka said she was concerned Stefanie wouldn't be able to work independently of James since the two relied so heavily on each other.
"I function on a daily basis both from a business perspective and a legal perspective.  My line of business requires me to be a leader on a daily basis.  I lead hundreds of people through complex litigation where millions of dollars are at risk, defending people just like your father," answered Stefanie.  "I was the driving force of our team from Day 1.  I was not only a creative force, I was the glue that held our team together."
Donald Jr. criticized James for not being able "to see the big picture," especially during the final task, when Donald Jr. thought James "got lucky" when he became "so focused on one aspect of the video" that he "almost forgot about everything else."  While James tried to explain he's the "visionary and strategist" of his Internet company, it apparently wasn't enough as he was still fired.
Stefanie was also a popular choice among some of the previously fired women applicants from The Apprentice's sixth season.  Heidi Androl, a 26-year-old national/international sales manager from Santa Monica, CA, told Trump she thought Stefani should win.  "I love strong women... and Stefani is the epitome of strong women," she said.  Kristine Lefebvre, a 37-year-old attorney from Los Angeles, CA, agreed.
"I think it's the year of the woman," she said.  "You don't have to scream the loudest to be the strongest, and I think watching Stefani from afar, she really led in a silent way -- if we want to say that -- but I think she kept the frat boys under control."
For winning The Apprentice: Los Angeles, Stefanie will receive a $250,000 salary for being employed by The Donald as she will oversee the construction of Trump at Cap Cana, a luxurious resort complex in the Dominican Republic that includes a beach club, condominium hotel, private villas, a golf course and 68 private estates.
FOLLOW REALITY TV WORLD ON THE ALL-NEW GOOGLE NEWS!
Reality TV World is now available on the all-new Google News app and website. Click here to visit our Google News page, and then click FOLLOW to add us as a news source!
"I believe I bring not only a legal and business background to it, but also coming at it from the point of view of being in construction, having been counsel for developers in construction, I understand it from the ground up," explained Stefanie.
Stefanie was the only the second female to win The Apprentice, following in the footsteps of Season 3 winner Kendra Todd.  The Apprentice's sixth season finale was also the first to be filmed outside of New York, as the series' entire season was filmed on the west coast.  While Trump remains optimistic, NBC has yet to renew The Apprentice for a seventh installment.
About The Author:
Christopher Rocchio
Christopher Rocchio is an entertainment reporter for Reality TV World and has covered the reality TV genre for several years. FOLLOW REALITY TV WORLD ON GOOGLE NEWS
REALITYTVWORLD: THE APPRENTICEREALITYTVWORLD: THE APPRENTICE 6SIRLINKSALOT: THE APPRENTICETHE APPRENTICE 6 CAST INFOTHE APPRENTICE MESSAGE BOARDS
MORE THE APPRENTICE: LOS ANGELES NEWS
<< PRIOR STORY Report: Former 'The Apprentice: LA' candidate to grace 'Playboy' coverNEXT STORY >>'All-Stars' Oswald Mendez and Danilo Jimenez finish last but surviveGet more Reality TV World!  Follow us on Twitter, like us on Facebook or add our RSS feed.
ADVERTISEMENT
'The Apprentice' star Donald Trump getting daily TV advice show Donald Trump Jr. follows 'Apprentice' star dad's lead, gets gun permit Donald Trump's Florida golf course under investigation for shooting 'The Apprentice' star Donald Trump's next book to get personal 'The Apprentice' star Ivanka Trump to join Trump Resorts board 'Married at First Sight' star Karla Juarez: Juan Franco lied on our wedding day Litia Garr: Grant Ellis promised I'd be his 'The Bachelor' winner on our first date and he "never let up" 'Married at First Sight' Couples: Where are they now? Who's still together? (PHOTOS)                  'The Bachelor' alum Nick Viall's wife Natalie Joy suffers second miscarriage  'The Bachelor': Grant Ellis blindsides Litia Garr and gets engaged to Juliana Pasquarosa  'Married at First Sight' star Karla Juarez breaks silence on Juan Franco's claims -- "You look silly as f-ck" 'The Bachelorette' alum Katie Thurston marries Jeff Arcuri amid cancer battle Juliana Pasquarosa: 14 things to know about 'The Bachelor' bachelorette Juliana Pasquarosa
ADVERTISEMENT
Aaron Altscher - Aimee Trottier - Angela Ruggiero - Carey Sherrell - Derek Arteta - Donald Trump - Frank Lombardi - Heidi Androl - James Sun - Jennifer Hoffman - Kristine Lefebvre - Marisa DeMato - Martin Han Clarke - Michelle Sorro - Muna Heaven - Nicole D'Ambrosio - Stefanie Schaeffer - Surya Yalamanchili - Tim UrbanJimmy Fallon's 'The Tonight Show' dropping to only four nights a weekAshley Tisdale announces birth of her second childSelena Gomez is a billionaire'911 Lone Star' fifth season will be its last on FOX'Beacon 23' and 'The Winter King' canceled by MGM+'The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power' Season 2 trailer teases Siege of Eregion'Bad Monkey' star Natalie Martinez: Vince Vaughn is the perfect partnerChanning Tatum would do "terrible things" to make 'Gambit' movie happen'Only Murders in the Building' trio investigate Sazz's death in Season 4 trailer'The Monkey' movie teaser shows blood-soaked Theo James'Modern Family' star Julie Bowen stars in Peacock's new 'Hysteria!''The Gilded Age' adds Merritt Wever, Leslie Uggams and more to Season 3 cast'Twisters' movie released on digital platformsJared Padalecki joining 'Fire Country' for Season 3Netflix sets 'The Diplomat' Season 2 premiere dateKylie Minogue strikes a pose in 'My Oh My' music videoH.E.R. to perform at Paris Olympics closing ceremony'SEAL Team' star David Boreanaz experiencing full range of emotions as series wrapsMichelle Pfeiffer to star in new 'Yellowstone' spin-off 'Madison''One Fast Move' star K.J. Apa: "I love stories about redemption"
Page generated Tue Mar 25, 2025 17:26 pm in 0.88320398330688 seconds
About Reality TV World   •
Advertise on Reality TV World  •
Contact Reality TV World  •
Privacy Policy   •
RSS Feed
Top Shows:
90 Day Fiance ·
The Amazing Race ·
American Idol ·
America's Got Talent ·
America's Next Top Model ·
·
The Bachelor ·
The Bachelorette ·
Big Brother ·
Dance Moms ·
Duck Dynasty ·
Hell's Kitchen ·
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ·
Married at First Sight ·
MasterChef ·
Pawn Stars ·
Project Runway ·
The Real Housewives ·
The Real World ·
Shark Tank ·
So You Think You Can Dance  ·
Survivor ·
Teen Mom ·
Top Chef ·
The Voice
Top People:
Colton Underwood ·
Becca Kufrin ·
Arie Luyendyk Jr. ·
Rachel Lindsay ·
Nick Viall ·
Jojo Fletcher ·
Ben Higgins ·
Kaitlyn Bristowe ·
Chris Soules ·
Andi Dorfman ·
Juan Pablo Galavis ·
Desiree Hartsock ·
Sean Lowe ·
Emily Maynard ·
Ben Flajnik ·
Ashley Hebert ·
Brad Womack ·
Ali Fedotowsky ·
Jake Pavelka ·
Jillian Harris ·
Jason Mesnick ·
DeAnna Pappas ·
Matt Grant ·
Andy Baldwin ·
Lorenzo Borghese ·
Travis Stork ·
Charlie O'Connell ·
Byron Velvick ·
Jen Schefft ·
Andrew Firestone ·
Aaron Buerge ·
Trista Rehn ·
Cassie Randolph ·
Tayshia Adams ·
Hannah Godwin ·
Caelynn Miller-Keyes ·
Hannah Brown ·
Demi Burnett ·
Lincoln Adim ·
Leo Dottavio ·
Blake Horstmann ·
Chris Randone ·
Jason Tartick ·
Garrett Yrigoyen ·
Tia Booth ·
Lauren Burnham ·
Kendall Long ·
Jenna Cooper ·
Maquel Cooper ·
Jenny Delaney ·
Seinne Fleming ·
Olivia Goethals ·
Lauren Jarreau ·
Britt Johnson ·
Bibiana Julian ·
Caroline Lunny ·
Bekah Martinez ·
Marikh Mathias ·
Krystal Nielson ·
Nysha Norris ·
Annaliese Puccini ·
Chelsea Roy ·
Jacqueline Trumbull ·
Bryan Abasolo ·
Vanessa Grimaldi ·
Jordan Rodgers ·
Lauren Bushnell ·
Wells Adams ·
Danielle Maltby ·
Carly Waddell ·
Evan Bass ·
Jade Roper ·
Shawn Booth ·
Peter Kraus ·
Josh Murray ·
Whitney Bischoff ·
Nikki Ferrell ·
Catherine Giudici ·
Courtney Robertson ·
Molly Malaney ·
Tenley Molzahn ·
Melissa Rycroft ·
Dean Unglert ·
Kristina Schulman ·
Danielle Lombard ·
Clare Crawley ·
Becca Tilley ·
Caila Quinn ·
Emily Ferguson ·
Haley Ferguson ·
Amanda Stanton ·
Ashley Iaconetti ·
Juelia Kinney ·
Lindzi Cox ·
Samantha Steffen ·
Ashley Salter ·
Lauren Himle ·
Lace Morris ·
Corinne Olympios ·
DeMario Jackson ·
Taylor Nolan ·
Derek Peth ·
Raven Gates ·
Jasmine Goode ·
Matt Munson ·
Sarah Vendal ·
Lacey Mark ·
Jack Stone ·
Daniel Maguire ·
Jaimi King ·
Dominique Alexis ·
Christen Whitney ·
Jonathan Treece ·
Diggy Moreland ·
Robby Hayes ·
Luke Pell ·
Sarah Herron ·
Grant Kemp ·
Jenna Johnson ·
Kevin Schlehuber ·
Raven Walton ·
Paul Abrahamian ·
Cody Nickson ·
Jessica Graf ·
Christmas Abbott ·
Alex Ow ·
Josh Martinez ·
Mark Jansen ·
Jason Dent ·
Matt Clines ·
Top Spoilers:
90 Day Fiance Spoilers ·
The Bachelor Spoilers ·
The Bachelorette Spoilers ·
The Bachelor and The Bachelorette Facebook Group
Top Couples:
90 Day Fiance Couples: Where are they now? ·
90 Day Fiance Before the 90 Days Couples: Where are they now? ·
The Amazing Race Couples: Where are they now? ·
Dancing with the Stars Couples: Who is dating or married to whom? ·
The Bachelor Franchise Couples: Who is still together? ·
The Bachelor Couples: Where are they now? ·
The Bachelorette Couples: Where are they now? ·
Big Brother Showmance Couples: Where are they now? ·
Married at First Sight Couples: Who is still together? ·
Survivor Couples: Where are they now?
All logos and trademarks presented are property of their respective owner.
All site content is © 2000-2019 Reality TV World and may not be republished or reproduced without Reality TV World's expressed written permission.
This website has been solely developed and presented by Reality TV World, and is in no way authorized or connected with any network, station affiliate, or broadcasting sponsor.