Find Trusted Babysitters Near You in Le Sueur, MN - Sittercity
Sittercity logo
Log in
Sign Up
I'm a...
Parent
Sitter
Help
Join as a sitter
Sittercity logo
Help
Log in
Sign Up
I'm a...
Parent
Sitter
Save up to 62% with our value plans
×
Find experienced babysitters in Le Sueur, MN
Last-minute, school and tutoring, date nights—find the right babysitters for you.
Find experienced babysitters in Le Sueur, MN
Get started:
I need a babysitter
On a regular schedule
On occasion
Get started: tell us about your needs
Regular
Weekly, before/after school, driving
Occasional
As-needed for when you need care
One time
Date night, upcoming event, backup
1 active babysitters near you
Discover local babysitters in Le Sueur. Find the right fit for your family.
Average rate is $17.50/hr
Based on recent Sittercity data from our community of Le Sueur babysitters.
Search babysitters
Available babysitters in Le Sueur, MN
Danielle M.
20 years paid experience
< 1 mile
$
10–25/hr
I have love children all my life. I have worked with all ages from newborn to preteen but most of my time has been with newborns though 5 years old. I believe that a child's caregiver should offer options for both the children and the parents. I will play games, read, do art and craft projects, hel...
$
10–25/hr
More babysitters in Le Sueur
More babysitters in Le Sueur
Find the sitter you need:
Date night babysitters
Daytime babysitters
Last-minute care
Mother's helpers
Newborn care
Infant care
CPR training
First aid training
School help
Before-school care in Le Sueur
After-school care in Le Sueur
Tutoring in Le Sueur
Hybrid learning assistance in Le Sueur
eLearning assistance in Le Sueur
Homeschool help in Le Sueur
More care options
Nannies in Le Sueur
Child care in Le Sueur
Special needs care in Le Sueur
Companion care in Le Sueur
Pet sitters in Le Sueur
Babysitting FAQs
How much should I pay for a babysitter in Le Sueur, MN?
The national typical hourly rate of babysitters in 2024 is 21.50 per hour. Rates can vary based on your babysitter's experience, certifications, and travel expenses. When calculating the cost of child care, you should also account for the number of children they'll care for and additional responsibilities like household tasks or homework help. Learn more about how to set competitive babysitting rates for attracting the best babysitters.
How do I find a babysitter for my kids in Le Sueur, MN?
The best way to find babysitters near you is to post a job detailing your needs on Sittercity, which will be shared with our community of available babysitters. We'll notify you when sitters apply to your job, and from there you can proceed with interviews, background checks, and reference checks so you can find the perfect fit for your family.
What kind of babysitters can I find in Le Sueur, MN?
You can find experienced and passionate babysitters near you to provide the best care for your child, either in-home or virtually. Babysitters can help families with managing strict schedules, transportation to activities, homework help, last-minute coverage, date nights, and more. Whatever occasion you're looking to find a babysitter for, including full-time, part-time, or last-minute care, you can count on Sittercity for finding passionate and experienced babysitters.
How do families hire trustworthy babysitters in Le Sueur, MN?
Families find trustworthy babysitters on Sittercity who are passionate about providing safe and enriching care for their children. Many babysitters report they are First Aid and CPR certified to provide the best care for your family. Babysitters have the option to complete regular background checks, and you can easily request a recent background check if they don’t have one or it is not recent. Families can also request to see professional references!
Our dedicated team also champions safety across our platform every day. Babysitters go through an identity verification process with Berbix when registering an account. Some additional safety measures include Family Watchdog screening, sitter reviews, and secure messaging.
What's the difference between a babysitter and a nanny?
Babysitters and nannies share the same primary responsibility of providing safe and enriching care for your child, but there are a few differences between them. Babysitters are typically hired for occasional work on an irregular schedule. If you’re looking for last-minute care for date night, or the occasional few hours after school, a babysitter is a great option.
Nannies, on the other hand, are more commonly associated with regular work, whether full or part-time, offering daily or consistent care to a particular family. There are also several different types of nannies, including au pairs, house managers, doulas, live-in, and overnight nannies.
Identifying the type and frequency of child care you’ll need is the best way to decide whether a babysitter or nanny is a better fit for your family.
How do babysitters interact with my child?
Babysitters on Sittercity love providing enriching experiences for your children, and sharing their passions with them. They're happy to participate in outdoor activities like sports, or indoor activities like music, baking, tutoring help, and art. Wherever your child's interests lie, babysitters on Sittercity are prepared to engage them in a nurturing way.
About us
Careers
Blog
Press
Sittercity on Facebook
Sittercity on Twitter
Sittercity on Instagram
Download the Sittercity app from the App Store
Resources
Affiliates
Trust & Safety Center
Community Inclusion Policy
Resources for Parents
Resources for Sitters
Find Child, Pet, & Senior Care
Babysitters
Nannies
Child Care
Special Needs Care
Senior Care
Pet Care
Find Jobs
Babysitting Jobs
Nannying Jobs
Child Care Jobs
Special Needs Care Jobs
Senior Care Jobs
Pet Sitting Jobs
© 2025 Sittercity Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
By using this site you agree to the Terms of Use. See our Privacy Policy. Make updates to Do Not Sell My Personal Information.
If you are having difficulty using assistive technology with this website, please contact Sittercity Member Services by email at support@sittercity.com .