Holiday
Article Sections 文章類別
Articles Home      Classifieds
Columbia English Language Program - Student-centered & Activity-based! Results-driven Language Learning students from 3 to 15!
Kid Castle invites you to a world of teaching excellence! Enjoy competitive salaries, an established curriculum, and the satisfaction of making classes both educational and fun.
One Month Paid Vacations!  Contract Completion Bonuses!  Semester Bonuses! Professional Long-Term Post Where You Will THRIVE!
Competitive compensation, annual raises & bonuses, immigration assistance, comprehensive training, a supportive curriculum & schools throughout Taiwan are waiting for you at HESS.
Choose Joy for a fulfilling teaching experience! Enjoy the perks of ARC sponsorship, guaranteed teaching hours, a competitive salary, and additional benefits like national health insurance and contract bonuses.
FULL-Time Elementary Teaching! NT$70,000+ / Mo! WELL-Established School! BEAUTIFUL Campus! COMPLETE Curriculum! MODERN Classrooms!
ARCs, Working, Contracts
Adding a Second Job & Changing Jobs
Fines & Deposits
Leaving a Job
CLA offices
Revisions to the Labor Law
NHI - Health Insurance
Teach in Taiwan: Public School Posts, Work Permits & MOE
Taxes in Taiwan
e-filing - Save Time and Be Green - File Your Taiwan Taxes Online!
Taiwan ARC offices - the National Immigration Agency
Embassy in Taiwan, Representative & Trade Offices in Taiwan
What Requirements are there to Teach English in Taiwan in 2024?
Health
ReAnKos Counseling Service
Health Check Hospitals
Women's Health
Vegetables
Haircuts
Dentists
Meeting Dr. Tsai, start smiling more!
Taiwan Coronavirus News
Organic Stores
Transportation
Buying, Selling a Scooter or Motorcycle
High Speed Rail
Flying to Taiwan, Airports in Taiwan
Getting a Drivers License
Living
Taiwan Receipt Lottery Most Recent Winning Numbers
Shipping to and from Taiwan - Overnight and Parcels
Custom-made Shoes in Taiwan
Costco Open in HsinChu!
Clothes Recycling
Taipei-MRT-Easy-Mao-E-Z-Map
10 Taiwan Gifts You Can Give
Night View Restaurants in Taiwan
birds-in-taiwan
taiwan-shopping-green-and-safe
Culture
Street Names - Window Into a Culture
Taiwan Celebrities 台灣名人
Weather
Typhoon Report
Weather & Climate
Taiwan Weather News
Shopping
Jasons Market
Warehouse Stores in Taiwan
Small Stores
Warehouse Stores in Taiwan
Warehouse Stores in Taiwan
Warehouse Stores in Taiwan
Warehouse Stores in Taiwan
Study & Scholarships
NCCU國立政治大學 IMBA - AACSB Accredited, Harvard Cooperation
Make a Difference, Make an Impact - The NCCU IMBA
2009 Graduate Business Forum
NKFUST 國立高雄第一科技大學 - Southern Taiwan's TOP Uni !
IMBA at NCCU 國立政治大學
National Chi Nan University 國立暨南國際大學
International Honors Program/IHP, Kainan University 開南大學
NCKU 國立成功大學 - Elite School, Nobel Alumni
National Chiao Tung University EECS 國立交通大學
National Taiwan University 國立臺灣大學
International Students at Kainan University 開南大學
All About Kainan University 開南大學
Providence University 靜宜大學, Taichung
National Cheng Kung University - Taiwan's Academic Powerhouse 國立成功大學 & the IMBA Program
NCKU International Students 國立成功大學
International Students at Providence University 靜宜大學
All About National Taiwan University 國立臺灣大學, Taipei
National Taiwan University 2009 International Students Soccer Festival
National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology
Providence University All-English M.S., MBA
Chienkuo Technology University, Changhua 建國科技大學
National Ilan University 國立宜蘭大學
NCCU All-English IDAS, IMAS Degrees
English Degrees
Providence University 靜宜大學
Chienkuo Technology University
National Chengchi University 國立政治大學
NCTU-GMBA
Providence University- Graduate International Programs (GIPs) in Business Administration and Computer Science
外國人學中文正夯全台灣華語教學中心 TCSOL
NCCU 2016
Sports, Exercise & Outdoors
Volleyball
Football / Soccer
Swimming
Tennis
Badminton
Basketball
Rockclimbing
Surfing
History of Surfing in Taiwan
Cellphones, Phones & Long Distance Rates
Getting a Cellphone
Cellphone Long Distance Rates
Banks & Money
Getting a Bank Account in Taiwan
Money, Pay & Finances
Travel
La La Mountain
Taiwan Cruises, Travel Taiwan, Visa Run
Kenting
Sun Moon Lake
Taitung
Learn English
Learn English
Learn Chinese & Taiwanese
5 Ways to Say Hello & Goodbye in Chinese & Taiwanese
Business
Taiwan Top 3
entrepreneurial
Teaching English
Haggles
tealit.com
中文教學人才  Chinese Tutor Wanted
中 |
台北市 |
讀,聽,說
中 |
台中市 |
讀,聽,說
初 |
台北市 |
寫,說
中 |
台北市 |
讀,寫,聽,說
初 |
台北市 |
聽,說
Feautured Classifieds 熱門分類廣告
Kang Chiao International School!
SMALL class sizes! WELL-Established School! STABLE Full-time posts! Currently we have 12 teachers on staff. We are hoping YOU will be the next to join!
Kang Chiao International School!
SMALL class sizes! WELL-Established School! STABLE Full-time posts! Currently we have 12 teachers on staff. We are hoping YOU will be the next to join!
Welcoming teachers from Canada, U.S.A., Australia, UK, New Zealand, and South Africa!
PAID Holidays! PROFESSIONAL Environment! BEAUTIFUL, FULLY-equipped Classrooms! WELL-structured Curriculum!
Experience REWARDED! Washington Education!
AMAZING Location! WELL-Established School! PROFESSIONAL Curriculum! WELCOMING Parents! ENTHUSIASTIC Kids!
Affiliated with Ton Yen General Hospital! Tuition subsidy for dependent children! Relocation assistance: We will help you to find housing that meets your needs! We can provide an interest free loan- NTD $30,000 (around USD$1000)-to help you settle in Hsinchu!
Starting Salaries Up to NT $80,000 / Mo! Contract Completion Bonus! Attendance Bonus! Chinese New Year Red Envelope/ Bonus! Company Trip! Tenure Raise!
Capone's Italian Dinnerhouse, Taipei
Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse
Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse
Reservation：02-2773-3782
Hours：11:30am - 1am, 7 Days a Week
Address：No.312, Sec.4, Zhongxiao E. Road, Da An District, Taipei city
Landmark：Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall MRT Station, Exit 2, right next to Capone’s!
台北市大安區忠孝東路四段312號(捷運國父紀念站2號出口)
Parking：Chiao An Parking Lo, right next to the restaurant!僑安停車場
Websites：
http://www.caponestaipei.com.tw
Walk into Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse in Taipei and your eyes are greeted by classic American styling and a welcoming softly-lit environment while the rest of your senses drink in the deep aromas of delicious Italian sauces, warming bread, a thrum of olive oil in the air, red and white wines opening and closing and frosty beer being tapped into cold pint glasses.
Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse
As you walk in you’ll find a long bar, polished bar - the perfect venue to enjoy any of the live music performed Wednesday, Thursday, Friday & Saturday nights. Arrayed beyond that bar are fine wooden tables draped with fresh linen, and then plush booths – places where you can relax & enjoy Capone’s delicious authentic Italian meals & for lunch or dinner. Tables & booths that are tended to by a professional waitstaff. The booths sit against set-back windows running along two sides of the restaurant, letting in just enough light during the day and providing the perfect frame for the pulsating thrush of Zhongxiao Road in the evenings. The lights pulsing even more with Wednesday, Thursday, Friday & Saturday nights’ live music.
Chef Boschiavo Matteo
Chef Boschiavo Matteo
Serving Lunch & dinner seven days a week days a week Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse is captained Chef Boschiavo Matteo, a graduate of Verona’s famed L'Istituto Professionale di Stato per i Servizi Alberghieri e della Ristorazione «Angelo Berti». Chef Boschiavo Matteo came to Taiwan in September 2001, when he was 25 years old. Today he says, “Taiwan is my second home!”
Chef Boschiavo Matteo
As a professional specializing in Italian Food, Chef Boschiavo Matteo says his main focus it to always prepare the BEST dishes possible, using the freshest imported and domestic ingredients, all being made in his gleaming 21st century kitchen. For Chef Boschiavo Matteo the patron’s taste always comes 1st! If you’d like your meals cooked in any special way – with a touch of olive oil for your pasta…extra alfredo sauce for your fettuccine; your steak: VERY well done or EXTRA rare…Chef Boschiavo Matteo says he’s just waiting for you to ask! After studying for 5 years Chef Boschiavo Matteo wants to provide the FINEST Italian food available anywhere in Taiwan. Here’s a sample of some of his specialties:
Pasta Alla Marinara
Pasta Alla Marinara
Spaghetti with squid, clams, mussels, scallops and shrimp in marinara sauce/44
NT$390
Fresh handmade tomato juice plus Italian spice, butter, garlic and pepper. Onion and celery stew soup, shrimp, clams, scallops and mussels Pasta Alla Marinara satisfies your appetite to sea food.
Ossobuco 10oz
Ossobuco 10oz
Veal shank prepared Italian style /76
NT$790
Mint, rosemary, celery, garlic, onion and radish are stir-fried with the most tender & fresh veal shank. Stewed with fresh tomato for almost two hours the flavors merge. Choose a glass of fine red wine to complement this dish!
Pizza Speciale
Pizza Speciale (10"#17) (14"#17)
Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ricotta, Arugula, baby tomatoes and olive oil /117
10"/$450 14"/$600
The key to the Pizza Speciale is that it is light, mouth-watering & non-greasy. Using basil, olive oil and fresh tomato to thicken the sauce the key to the Pizza Speciale is the use of mozzarella & ricotta cheeses, plus hand-thrown crisp thin crust and then a spray of fresh Arugula garnishing the top. This makes these pizzas light, delicious and irresistible!
Chef Boschiavo Matteo
Carefully cooking up the most tasty Italian dishes you’ll find in Taiwan is not all of what Chef Boschiavo Matteo does in Taipei. He says he finds the city to be totally internationalized, like other great capitals around the world. Chef Boschiavo Matteo says that living in Taipei he always has the chance to meet people from all around the world who are either visiting or who have come for business. Chef Boschiavo Matteo describes Taipei as having everything: theaters, live music, museums, movies, nightlife, biking, swimming, subways. For Chef Boschiavo Matteo the abundance of English makes Taipei an even better environment for internationals.
The Bar
The Bar
Pulled ice cold from the taps you’ll find the finest beers in the world frothing into glasses every day at Capone’s
On Tap!
Heineken
Abbot Ale
Guinness
Stella Artois
Hoegaarden
Taiwan Beer
The Bar
Besides these crisp draughts you’ll find the BEST liquors in the bottle including Tequila, Brandy, Gin, Rum, Vodka and Whisky. Plus the bartenders’ deep knowledge of the world’s favorite cocktails!
Live Music
Live Music
Wednesdays, Thursday, Fridays and Saturdays nights sees live shows with professionals from around the world including Roberto and Rick from Paraguay playing guitar and singing smooth jazz; Antonello from Italy bringing genuine Italian music; bands that burn up the dance floor and even New Orleans jazz!
Parties & Events
Capone’s delicious food and sophisticated atmosphere have made it the go-to spot for parties, events and celebrations. Businesses such as Warner Music Taiwan Ltd., Linfair Records Ltd. and Shin Kong Financial Holding Co., Ltd. Have all chosen Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse for their events.
For a true dining experience Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse has left out not a single detail, right down to gleaming silverware. Capone’s Italian Dinnerhouse is the PERFECT environment for Lunch, Coffee, Drinks, Continental Appetizers, and the MOST delicious authentic Italian dishes you can find today, not to mention the place to enjoy live music performed every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday & Saturday night from 9pm!
Reservation：02-2773-3782
Hours：11:30am - 1am, 7 Days a Week
Address：No.312, Sec.4, Zhongxiao E. Road, Da An District, Taipei city
Landmark: Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall MRT Station, Exit 2, right next to Capone’s!
台北市大安區忠孝東路四段312號(捷運國父紀念站2號出口)
Parking：Chiao An Parking Lo, right next to the restaurant!僑安停車場
Websites：http://www.caponestaipei.com.tw
Articles Home
Next Article
Teachers 外籍教師
Come learn Spanish with me
Tutors of Chinese Available 華語教師、華語家教
I want you!
Tutors 外籍家教
Exam preparation and Business English tutor in Kao...
Apartments to Share 租屋
Language Exchange 國際交友
Tutors of Chinese Wanted 華語教學工作機會
Chinese Mandarin tutor needed for a 5 year old chi...
台北辦公室：+886-2-23311289
tealit 版權所有 ©  All Rights Reserved.
請勿任意轉載，違者依法必究 | Terms of Service | Contact